Pollca | News & Headlines - Yahoo News Canada Home Mail News Sports Finance Celebrity Style Movies Weather Answers Mobile Yahoo Search Search Mail News Home Follow Us Coronavirus Vote 'n' Vent Originals Canada World Business Entertainment Sports Science & Tech Weather Coronavirus updates VOTE: Are you optimistic Canada can lower COVID-19 rates? See the full recap of all the day's events in coronavirus news across the country Vote 'n' Vent Click on the stories below to vote on the hot-button issues of the day. News Elisabetta Bianchini Tell us: Are you happy with Canada's response to the COVID-19 outbreak? As the COVID-19 outbreak continues to spread around the world, the Canadian government announced Wednesday that it has established a $1 billion response fund to combat the virus. 662 Ad Top 10 Best Dating Sites London Singles: 3 Online Dating Sites that Actually Work The Best Dating Sites You Didn't Know About News Tori Floyd Tim Hortons Rewards: The best and worst value items If you want to get the best value for your hard-earned points, here are the items that will give you the most and least value for your money. 36 News Elisabetta Bianchini 'Rob Ford had his heart in the right place...': 'Run This Town' director aims to show 'human side' of late Toronto mayor Dubbed informally as “The Rob Ford Movie,” Ricky Tollman’s “Run This Town” takes us back to the 2013 crack video scandal that rocked the city and became an international news sensation. News Tori Floyd Changes at Tim Hortons: Are you happy with the cafe chain? Tim Hortons is undergoing changes in response to poor quarterly results. But is it enough to win back the hearts and wallets of Canadians? News Chris Hanna Viral video sparks debate on reclining seats on airplanes — but what are the rules? A video viewed more than 600,000 times has set parts of the internet ablaze with the eternal burning question regarding airplane etiquette: Is it ever OK to recline your seat? Ad Slotomania Play This Slot Game And See Why Canada is Hooked If You Like to Play, This Free Online Slot Game is a Must-Try... News Elisabetta Bianchini Oscar predictions: Who do you think will win at the Academy Awards? What do you want to see happen at the 2020 Academy Awards? News Elisabetta Bianchini Most controversial moments from the Grammy Awards Before Sunday’s show, Yahoo Canada looks back at some of the most controversial Grammy Awards moments from ceremonies past. News Elisabetta Bianchini 'Why eat like the Bourgeoisie?': Justin Trudeau's doughnut debacle in Winnipeg goes viral When Prime Minister Justin Trudeau arrived in Winnipeg on Monday, a seemingly innocent stop at a local doughnut shop, Oh Doughnut, turned into a viral moment. News Elisabetta Bianchini Scam alert: Arrest made in debit card swap costing Canadians thousands Several debit card fraud incidents have been reported in Canada recently, particularly in the Toronto area. Ad RagingBull How He Made $2.8M Trading Stocks Part-Time At Home Kyle Dennis took a leap of faith and decided to invest his savings of $15K in the stock market — $2.8M later, he owes his success to these strategies News Elisabetta Bianchini 'They look just like they loved each other...': Body language expert breaks down Brad Pitt and Jennifer Aniston's viral run-in “There’s no question, they look just like they loved each other back in the day,” body language expert Dr. Lillian Glass said about Brad Pitt and Jennifer Aniston's run-in at the SAG Awards. News Elianna Lev When you don't need to bother with travel insurance The recent news of Canadians getting ill abroad highlights the importance of getting travel insurance. But there are some situations when it's not needed. News Elianna Lev Should Greta Thunberg's climate change message be taught to elementary school students? Some feel that the teen is too young to be a crusader for climate change and are critical that someone who hasn’t finished high school has taken on the cause. London Today12° Sat14°1° Sun10°1° Mon14°-2° What to Read Next COVID-19 in Canada: PM Trudeau, Doug Ford express disappointment in Trump's trade 'mistake' Yahoo News Canada 5 TSX Stocks for Building Wealth Motley Fool CanadaAd U.S. doctors seek protection from malpractice suits during outbreak Reuters Videos 'This is so irresponsible': 'Covidiot' blogger faces backlash for leaving New York City after COVID-19 diagnosis Yahoo Canada Style 'Canada will lose every time:' COVID-19 pandemic threatens Canada-U.S. relations Yahoo News Canada London Singles: 3 Online Dating Sites that Actually Work Top 10 Best Dating SitesAd London Zoo: Business as usual behind closed doors Reuters Videos How Long Does Coronavirus Live In The Air? Here's What We Know. HuffPost Life Coronavirus cases in Canada: More than 12,000 cases reported, 187 deaths Yahoo News Canada Single Moms in London Looking For a New Beginning Mature Quality SinglesAd Trudeau rejects mandatory stay-at-home order for now; COVID deaths up The Canadian Press Cougars venture into quarantined Santiago for food Reuters Videos The CDC Advises Everyone To Wear Masks In Public HuffPost A Natural Formula Can Help Knee and Back Pain Reqvo CreamAd Detroit bus driver complains on video about dangerous passenger then dies days later WXYZ-Detroit Videos Tucker Carlson claims medical experts 'failed us badly' on the coronavirus Yahoo Entertainment Two fearless pet dogs go face-to-face with five-foot-long cobra in India Newsflare New Studies Show Hair Loss Can Be Reversed Shapiro MDAd How doctors in Canada will decide who lives and dies if pandemic worsens The Canadian Press Dismissed U.S. carrier captain gets hero's ovation from crew Reuters Tim Hortons to open 400 locations to support truck drivers Yahoo Finance Canada 23 Genius Gadgets Taking Canada By Storm iTechDiscoveryAd Penguin, Meet Beluga: Curious Bird Meets Curious Mammals at Chicago's Shedd Aquarium Storyful 3M pushes back on Trump administration order to stop sending N95 masks to Canada The Canadian Press Internal audit of Scheer's expenses turns up money on school, clothes, minivan The Canadian Press Play This Slot Game And See Why Canada is Hooked SlotomaniaAd Canada could be headed for negative yields, as quantitative easing begins Yahoo Finance Canada No sign of spring in Sweden as heavy snow continues to fall Newsflare Jared Kushner Ripped For Saying 'Our Stockpile' Isn't Meant For States To Use HuffPost Credit Protection for Professional Students TD InsuranceAd Grocery workers call out shoppers ignoring COVID-19 restrictions CBC Elephant celebrates first year of freedom after enduring 40 years of abuse Newsflare Coronavirus may spread in faeces: Scientists give six tips on how to keep pipes pathogen-free Yahoo Style UK How Safe Are Your Stock Investments? Fisher Investments CanadaAd Metis Hunters' Killings Not Racially Motivated, Say Alberta RCMP. Locals Aren't So Sure. HuffPost Canada Coronavirus: Bill Gates warned Rafael Nadal pandemic would become 'complicated', says uncle Toni Omnisport British, American and Australian tourists arrested at 'drug-fuelled party' in Thailand during COVID-19 lockdown Newsflare The 1 WD40 Trick Everyone Should Know About Trendy TribuneAd Khabib Nurmagomedov says he will fight Tony Ferguson if Dana White gives him a UFC 249 location Yahoo Sports Seth Meyers Demolishes ‘Nepotism Case’ Jared Kushner for Coronavirus Failure The Daily Beast Rangers' K'Andre Miller repeatedly called racial slur during hacked Zoom call Yahoo Sports Canada Luxury Senior Living In London Is Actually Affordable ZaglineAd Australians embrace furry friends Reuters Videos Apparently baby Archie Harrison is already settling into life in LA Cosmo Canadian Restaurants Hit By COVID-19 Downturn Morph Into Grocery Stores HuffPost Canada Stay connected at a distance! View singles online. matchAd Ontario to shut down some construction sectors amid COVID-19 outbreak, premier says CBC Orphaned bear cub found in forest recovering at U.S. zoo Reuters Videos How To Make Coronavirus Face Masks, And How Effective They Are HuffPost Life Multi-device file access with Office 365 Microsoft Office 365Ad Trump’s Do-What-My-Experts-Say-Not-As-I-Do Pandemic Response Ready For More Golf HuffPost