William and Kate tell NHS staff 'country is proud' Home Mail News Sports Finance Celebrity Style Movies Weather Answers Mobile Yahoo Search Search Mail News Home Follow Us Coronavirus Vote 'n' Vent Originals Canada World Business Entertainment Sports Science & Tech Weather Coronavirus updates VOTE: Are you optimistic Canada can lower COVID-19 rates? See the full recap of all the day's events in coronavirus news across the country Coronavirus: William and Kate tell NHS 'the whole country is proud of you' Rebecca Taylor, royal correspondent Yahoo Style UK April 2, 2020 Reblog Share Tweet Share View photos Amged El-Hawrani, the first frontline NHS hospital worker to die after testing positive for coronavirus. (University Hospitals Derby/Press Association)More Prince William and Kate told colleagues of the first medic to die from coronavirus how proud they and the whole country are of the NHS as they continue to battle the spread of the deadly disease. The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge called staff at Queen’s Hospital Burton on Wednesday, the hospital where Amged El-Hawrani worked as an ear, nose and throat specialist. The 55-year-old contracted COVID-19 and died at Glenfield Hospital in Leicester. He was the first medic to die from the illness. In a call from their home in Norfolk, where they and their three children are staying, the duke said: “We’d just like to say from the two of us how proud we are of all of you, and how amazingly you are all doing under extreme circumstances.” William, 37, went on to say: “I know all of you see this as your job and that you get on with it, but this is a different level and you are doing an incredible job. “The whole country is proud of you so thank you for everything you’re doing and all the hours you are putting in.” Read more: The five NHS workers killed by coronavirus ☎️ “The whole country is proud of you, so thank you for everything you’re doing and all the hours you are putting in.” — The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge to staff at Queen’s Hospital Burton and University Hospital Monklands.#clapforkeyworkers @UHDBTrust @UHMonklands pic.twitter.com/B8RjNZVZto — Kensington Palace (@KensingtonRoyal) April 2, 2020 Staff taking part included Gavin Boyle, chief executive of University Hospitals of Derby and Burton NHS Foundation Trust, and six staff from Queen’s Hospital Burton, including Mr Thompson and nurses of various grades who working in departments ranging from intensive care to emergency. Emily Johnson, a hospital spokeswoman who listened in on the 25 minute conversation, said it had boosted morale, adding: “It genuinely felt like they shared in our grief.” Alice Bloxham, a sister in the hospital’s Covid-19 cohort ward, said of the call: “This has been a difficult time for all the patients we care for and for the staff working in a very different environment. It was a pleasure to talk to the duke and duchess and to be able to explain some of the challenges we face for our patients.” View photos (left to right) Dr James Crampton, Queen's Hospital Medical Director, Gavin Boyle, Chief Executive of University Hospitals Derby and Burton NHS Foundation Trust, Richard Welch, ITU staff nurse, Mr Adrian Thompson, Ear, Nose and Throat (ENT) Consultant, Brogan Bishop, newly qualified staff nurse in the Emergency Department, Alice Bloxham, Sister on Ward 4, Covid-19 cohort ward, Chelsey Stephens, Staff nurse in Paediatrics. (Queen's hospital/Press Association)More Latest coronavirus news, updates and advice Live: Follow all the latest updates from the UK and around the world Fact-checker: The number of COVID-19 cases in your local area 6 charts and maps that explain how COVID-19 is spreading Accident and emergency nurse Brogan Bishop, who only qualified two months ago, was jumping up and down with excitement after speaking to the royal couple. “We’ve been really busy. It’s stressful,” she said, before adding: “I can’t wait to go back and tell my colleagues how wonderful they think we are.” William and Kate also rang staff at University Hospital Monklands in North Lanarkshire and Kate urged them to look after themselves while they were being pushed to the limit. The duchess, 38, said: “You’re stretched in all sorts of ways looking after the patients in your care under such extreme circumstances. “But you also need to be able to make sure you support yourselves, and each other. It must be so hard but I’m glad to hear that you’re currently getting all the support you need.” Dr Marion Devers, the deputy chief of medical services at Monklands in Airdrie said: “It was a great opportunity to reflect. It really refuelled us.” Read more: Coronavirus: Prince Charles praises NHS workers and volunteers in video message after leaving isolation Those on the call, including nurses, doctors, and a hospital cleaner, spoke of the challenges they face dealing with the virus and the kindness of people who have brought food in for them. The royals have been following government guidelines on social distancing and staying at home and so have been conducting most of their meetings by phone or video call. The Queen’s weekly audience with the Prime Minister now happens by phone. Last week, William and Kate shared a video of their three children taking part in Clap for Carers, in their garden in Anmer Hall. Before the lockdown, the Cambridges also visited an NHS 111 call centre in Croydon, where they thanked staff for their work. Reblog Share Tweet Share What to Read Next Coronavirus: hospitals in West Midlands 'will be at capacity by next weekend' The Guardian 5 TSX Stocks for Building Wealth Motley Fool CanadaAd Coronavirus: Privacy in a pandemic BBC Kate Garraway's husband hospitalised after testing positive for coronavirus Digital Spy Premier League to donate £20m to NHS amid coronavirus crisis The Independent London Singles: 3 Online Dating Sites that Actually Work Top 10 Best Dating SitesAd Premier League players to be consulted over 30% pay cut The Independent COVID-19 in Canada: PM Trudeau, Doug Ford express disappointment in Trump's trade 'mistake' Yahoo News Canada U.S. doctors seek protection from malpractice suits during outbreak Reuters Videos Single Moms in London Looking For a New Beginning Mature Quality SinglesAd 'This is so irresponsible': 'Covidiot' blogger faces backlash for leaving New York City after COVID-19 diagnosis Yahoo Canada Style 'Canada will lose every time:' COVID-19 pandemic threatens Canada-U.S. relations Yahoo News Canada London Zoo: Business as usual behind closed doors Reuters Videos A Natural Formula Can Help Knee and Back Pain Reqvo CreamAd The Latest: Chinese man jailed after not reporting travel The Canadian Press How Long Does Coronavirus Live In The Air? Here's What We Know. HuffPost Life