N.S. officials plan how to keep cancer treatments going during COVID-19 crisis Home Mail News Sports Finance Celebrity Style Movies Weather Answers Mobile Yahoo Search Search Mail News Home Follow Us Coronavirus Vote 'n' Vent Originals Canada World Business Entertainment Sports Science & Tech Weather Coronavirus updates VOTE: Are you optimistic Canada can lower COVID-19 rates? See the full recap of all the day's events in coronavirus news across the country N.S. officials plan how to keep cancer treatments going during COVID-19 crisis CBC April 3, 2020 Reblog Share Tweet Share Cancer care officials in Nova Scotia are working on a strategy to ensure patients still receive treatment during the COVID-19 pandemic. As of Thursday, no patients or staff had shown symptoms of the virus at the Cape Breton Cancer Centre, which treats about 625 patients a week and is one of two such facilities in the province. But Elwood MacMullin, the centre's medical director, said they're making plans in the event of a widespread outbreak to ensure staff are still able to provide care. "We're trying to put together a plan so that only half our staff at a time are actually working in the centre and the other half are working from home, so that in the event that we have contamination, we may have half of our team still available," he said. MacMullin said the Nova Scotia cancer care program is working to identify patients who would continue to need urgent care, as well as ways to deliver that care, in the event of a staff shortage. Submitted/Erin Forsey/NSHAMore On Friday, a spokesperson for the Nova Scotia Health Authority said the provincial cancer care team is not aware of any patients or staff with COVID-19 at the QEII Cancer Care Centre in Halifax, or at any of the community cancer clinics. The province said there are 207 confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Nova Scotia, as of Friday. MacMullin said the Cape Breton centre is committed to providing "essential" care, as well as seeing any new cases that are referred. They're also trying to triage cases to prioritize patients with more aggressive cancers. Cases that might be delayed in the future include follow-up appointments or infusions of drugs to prevent cancer recurrences. But MacMullin stressed that hasn't happened at this point and no treatments have been deferred. MacMullin said the centre is carefully screening patients for any symptoms of the virus, both before they come to the centre and again when they arrive. "Our population tends to be sicker," he said. "They have some compromise of their immunity because of their disease, and also because of the treatments that we use." Offering reassurance MacMullin said the centre is practising physical distancing, as much as possible, for patients receiving treatment. A health authority spokesperson said all out-patient services continue in medical, radiation and gynecologic oncology, as well as hematology, although efforts are being made when possible to reduce how often patients must go to the hospital. Some in-person appointments may instead be done by telephone or video conferencing. New patients are to be seen by oncologists, although telemedicine may be used more often. The Cape Breton centre is also preparing "in the unlikely event" of having a patient who requires urgent chemotherapy but is COVID-positive, MacMullin said. In the meantime, he said, they're doing their best to answer questions for patients who are anxious both about their disease and COVID-19. "We're doing everything we can to keep them informed and reassure them, and to put in place a plan to deal with them should be the worst-case scenario come to fruition," he said. MORE TOP STORIES Reblog Share Tweet Share What to Read Next Infectious disease expert Steve Pergam shares his prescription for a safe weekend get-together GeekWire 5 TSX Stocks for Building Wealth Motley Fool CanadaAd Campaigning in a time of crisis: Tory leadership candidates carry on The Canadian Press N.S. 'behind the ball' in protecting long-term care workers, union says CBC Being on the East Coast a double-edged sword in COVID-19 pandemic medical battle The Canadian Press London Singles: 3 Online Dating Sites that Actually Work Top 10 Best Dating SitesAd Federal minister resists calls to shut down Atlantic lobster fishery CBC COVID-19 in Canada: PM Trudeau, Doug Ford express disappointment in Trump's trade 'mistake' Yahoo News Canada U.S. doctors seek protection from malpractice suits during outbreak Reuters Videos Single Moms in London Looking For a New Beginning Mature Quality SinglesAd 'This is so irresponsible': 'Covidiot' blogger faces backlash for leaving New York City after COVID-19 diagnosis Yahoo Canada Style 'Canada will lose every time:' COVID-19 pandemic threatens Canada-U.S. relations Yahoo News Canada London Zoo: Business as usual behind closed doors Reuters Videos A Natural Formula Can Help Knee and Back Pain Reqvo CreamAd The Latest: Chinese man jailed after not reporting travel The Canadian Press How Long Does Coronavirus Live In The Air? Here's What We Know. HuffPost Life