How Long Does Coronavirus Live In The Air? Here's What We Know. Home Mail News Sports Finance Celebrity Style Movies Weather Answers Mobile Yahoo Search Search Mail News Home Follow Us Coronavirus Vote 'n' Vent Originals Canada World Business Entertainment Sports Science & Tech Weather Coronavirus updates VOTE: Are you optimistic Canada can lower COVID-19 rates? See the full recap of all the day's events in coronavirus news across the country How Long Does Coronavirus Live In The Air? Here's What We Know. Lindsay Holmes HuffPost Life April 3, 2020 Reblog Share Tweet Share How Long Does Coronavirus Live In The Air? Here's What We Know.More Part of the reason the coronavirus is so frightening is its invisibility. We can’t see where it lingers and have no idea if we’re coming into contact with it. Sure, we’re social distancing (if you’re not, you better start) but can we still encounter the virus in the air at the grocery store or outside? We don’t yet have an in-depth understanding of the novel coronavirus, including how it’s transmitted through the air. But a recent preliminary study published in the New England Journal of Medicine gives us some clues. Researchers examined how long the coronavirus lasted on surfaces like steel and plastic (up to three days ― yikes). They also looked at how long the virus stayed in the air in the form of an “aerosolized particle.” Aerosolized particles are essentially microscopic, and they’re formed when fluids containing the virus are expelled from a person and cling to dust or moisture in the air and hang there. The researchers found that airborne coronavirus particles stayed floating for up to three hours before falling and clinging to a new surface. Before you panic, there’s something important to note: This study was conducted in a very controlled setting. The likelihood of encountering the virus in this form is low for an average person, experts have previously told HuffPost. The virus doesn’t stay in the air enough to be a risk to people who are not physically near someone who is infected. This is because droplets from someone sneezing or coughing are typically much heavier than an aerosolized particle. “The experimental aerosols used in labs are smaller than what comes out of a cough or sneeze, so they remain in the air at face-level longer than heavier particles would in nature,” Carolyn Machamer, a professor of cell biology whose lab at the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, said in a Q&A. However, the phenomenon is a concern for health care workers. Aerosolized particles can easily form in medical settings during intubation or some other types of procedures like scoping or CPR. This is why proper protective equipment like respirator masks are so imperative for people on the front lines of the pandemic. You should not be excessively worried about encountering the coronavirus in the air on your daily walk around the neighborhood. Linsey Marr, an expert in virus transmission by aerosol at Virginia Tech in Blacksburg, told the New York Times that you should think of airborne coronavirus transmission like cigarette smoke. Marr, who was not affiliated with the study, said that the closer and sooner you are exposed to the person who exhaled the smoke, the more of a whiff you might get. The exposure decreases the further away you are and the longer the time has passed. “It sounds scary,” she said, referring to the study’s findings, “but unless you’re close to someone, the amount you’ve been exposed to is very low.” In other words, you should not be excessively worried about encountering the coronavirus in the air on your daily walk around the neighborhood. Instead, your real concern should be focused on surfaces. Say you get into an elevator. You should be more careful about touching the buttons than about breathing potentially contaminated air. Respiratory droplets are still believed to be the most common mode of coronavirus transmission. If the virus was truly airborne, experts think we’d see way more cases of COVID-19, the illness caused by the virus, than we already have. Regardless, all of this is why social distancing and lockdowns are so important. The farther away you are from others, the less likely it is that you’ll come into contact with the virus ― whether it’s through direct exposure, touching a surface or aerosolized particles. You never know who or what could be infected; research is finding that more people don’t know they have the illness and are stealth transmitters of the virus. Also, continue to wash your hands. Spend at least 20 seconds using warm water and soap (it doesn’t matter what kind) and a clean towel or paper towel to dry them off. Take the time to do it every time you come home, before eating, after using the bathroom and whenever else you think it’s necessary. It may feel like an overreaction, but it isn’t. Taking this seriously is the only way we can slow the spread and flatten the curve. A HuffPost Guide To Coronavirus Stay up to date with our live blog as we cover the COVID-19 pandemic How long are asymptomatic carriers contagious? The coronavirus worker revolt is just beginning Heads up: Not all your tax deadlines have been postponed I just got out of a COVID-19 ICU. Here’s how I made it through. How to make a no-sew coronavirus face mask What to do if you live with someone with COVID-19 There’s a simple game that can stop a tantrum cold The HuffPost guide to working from home What coronavirus questions are on your mind right now? We want to help you find answers. Everyone deserves accurate information about COVID-19. Support journalism – and keep it free for everyone – by becoming a HuffPost member today. Related... How Long Can Coronavirus Live On Surfaces, And Does Disinfecting Work? The Most Common Coronavirus Concerns, Answered By Doctors The Most Common Ways The Coronavirus Is Transmitted Love HuffPost? Become a founding member of HuffPost Plus today. This article originally appeared on HuffPost. Reblog Share Tweet Share What to Read Next OCBC to close 22 branches temporarily due to COVID-19 social distancing measures Yahoo News Singapore 5 TSX Stocks for Building Wealth Motley Fool CanadaAd Trump Calls Reporter's Tone 'Nasty' While Defending Kushner's Stockpile Remark HuffPost Asymptomatic Coronavirus Cases Reinforce Need To Keep Your Distance: Dr. Theresa Tam HuffPost Canada 'I'm not going to do it': Trump rejects his own administration's advice on masks The Guardian London Singles: 3 Online Dating Sites that Actually Work Top 10 Best Dating SitesAd Kylie Jenner Says She Doesn't 'Want Another Baby Right Now' but Plans to Have 7 Kids 'Down the Line' People COVID-19 in Canada: PM Trudeau, Doug Ford express disappointment in Trump's trade 'mistake' Yahoo News Canada U.S. doctors seek protection from malpractice suits during outbreak Reuters Videos Single Moms in London Looking For a New Beginning Mature Quality SinglesAd 'This is so irresponsible': 'Covidiot' blogger faces backlash for leaving New York City after COVID-19 diagnosis Yahoo Canada Style 'Canada will lose every time:' COVID-19 pandemic threatens Canada-U.S. relations Yahoo News Canada London Zoo: Business as usual behind closed doors Reuters Videos A Natural Formula Can Help Knee and Back Pain Reqvo CreamAd The Latest: Chinese man jailed after not reporting travel The Canadian Press Coronavirus cases in Canada: More than 12,000 cases reported, 187 deaths Yahoo News Canada