Prince Edward Island announces COVID-19 has put 2019-20 budget into deficit Home Mail News Sports Finance Celebrity Style Movies Weather Answers Mobile Yahoo Search Search Mail News Home Follow Us Coronavirus Vote 'n' Vent Originals Canada World Business Entertainment Sports Science & Tech Weather Coronavirus updates VOTE: Are you optimistic Canada can lower COVID-19 rates? See the full recap of all the day's events in coronavirus news across the country Prince Edward Island announces COVID-19 has put 2019-20 budget into deficit The Canadian Press April 3, 2020 Reblog Share Tweet Share CHARLOTTETOWN — Prince Edward Island's government is going to post a $3.7-million deficit in this year's budget rather than an anticipated surplus. Finance Minister Darlene Compton announced late Friday that the 2019-20 deficit is due to the COVID-19 pandemic driving up costs and reducing revenues. Compton said prior to the pandemic emerging over the past month, the province had anticipated a $2.5-million surplus. The minister also confirmed the province is adding $15 million to its emergency contingency fund and will allow for deferral of property taxes and fee payments until the end of this year. She told reporters during the briefing that the province expects it's going to have to borrow more money than anticipated in 2020-21 fiscal year due to the pandemic, though she didn't name a figure. "You can basically confirm we will be adding to the province's debt," said Compton. "We've borrowed $25 million, and we're increasing that to $40 million. And it's the early days of the pandemic." Premier Dennis King said his Progressive Conservative government is willing to incur deficits and increase debt "because we're living in a time when governments need to step up to the plate." "The economic hangover isn't something we'll be rid of by Canada Day .... It will linger on for months and years," he said. Government documents says economic growth has been revised down, and that the number of people thrown out of work or facing reduced hours is expected to hit 20,200 by May. "The ultimate severity and duration of the closures and social distancing restrictions are unknown and will depend on evidence of community transmission of the virus," the documents say. This report by The Canadian Press was first published April 3, 2020. The Canadian Press Reblog Share Tweet Share What to Read Next P.E.I. government increases emergency fund to $40M, offers property tax relief CBC 5 TSX Stocks for Building Wealth Motley Fool CanadaAd 4 of 22 of cases of COVID-19 on P.E.I. considered recovered, chief public health officer says CBC COVID-19 on P.E.I.: What's happening Friday, April 3 CBC COVID-19 in Canada: PM Trudeau, Doug Ford express disappointment in Trump's trade 'mistake' Yahoo News Canada New Studies Show Hair Loss Can Be Reversed Shapiro MDAd U.S. doctors seek protection from malpractice suits during outbreak Reuters Videos 'This is so irresponsible': 'Covidiot' blogger faces backlash for leaving New York City after COVID-19 diagnosis Yahoo Canada Style 'Canada will lose every time:' COVID-19 pandemic threatens Canada-U.S. relations Yahoo News Canada 3 Online Dating Sites that Actually Work Top 10 Best Dating SitesAd London Zoo: Business as usual behind closed doors Reuters Videos The Latest: Chinese man jailed after not reporting travel The Canadian Press How Long Does Coronavirus Live In The Air? Here's What We Know. HuffPost Life A Natural Formula Can Help Knee and Back Pain Reqvo CreamAd Coronavirus cases in Canada: More than 12,000 cases reported, 187 deaths Yahoo News Canada Trudeau rejects mandatory stay-at-home order for now; COVID deaths up The Canadian Press