Kylie Jenner Says She Doesn't 'Want Another Baby Right Now' but Plans to Have 7 Kids 'Down the Line' Home Mail News Sports Finance Celebrity Style Movies Weather Answers Mobile Yahoo Search Search Mail News Home Follow Us Coronavirus Vote 'n' Vent Originals Canada World Business Entertainment Sports Science & Tech Weather Coronavirus updates VOTE: Are you optimistic Canada can lower COVID-19 rates? See the full recap of all the day's events in coronavirus news across the country Kylie Jenner Says She Doesn't 'Want Another Baby Right Now' but Plans to Have 7 Kids 'Down the Line' Robyn Merrett People April 4, 2020 Reblog Share Tweet Share Kylie Jenner isn’t in a rush to have more kids. The makeup mogul, who shares 2-year-old daughter Stormi with rapper Travis Scott, revealed to her best friend Stassie Karanikolaou on Instagram Live, “I don’t want another baby right now.” Jenner, 22, shared, however, that she does “want seven kids down the line, but not right now.” The reality star explained to Karanikolaou, 22, that pregnancy was pretty challenging and not something she takes lightly. “Pregnancy is just not a joke, it’s a serious thing and it’s hard, I’m not ready for that just yet,” Jenner shared. Jenner shared similar sentiments back in January when she indulged in a fan Q&A during a makeup video alongside her big sister Kim Kardashian West. “How Kim manages being a mom of four and her work life? And Kylie, do you see yourself with four kids?” the fan asked. Kylie Jenner/Instagram Kylie Jenner and Stormi “I see myself for sure having four kids,” Jenner answered, adding however that she isn’t sure when that will happen. “I don’t have a timeline to this,” Jenner said while applying foundation on Kim, who shares four children: North, 6, Saint, 4, Chicago, 2, and Psalm, 8 months, with husband Kanye West. “I don’t know if I’m going to have four kids tomorrow or if I’m going to have four kids in seven years,” Jenner added. RELATED: Kylie Jenner Shares Adorable Bubble Bath Photo of Daughter Stormi: ‘This Pic Makes Me Happy’ A source previously told PEOPLE last June that Jenner “loves being a mom and can’t wait to give Stormi a sibling.” Jenner has been pretty occupied with her toddler as she practices social distancing amid the ongoing novel coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. Kylie Jenner/Instagram Kylie Jenner and Stormi Jenner shared on Instagram Live with Karanikolaou that she has been spending most of her time keeping Stormi “entertained.” “I have bought Stormi every single outdoor toy you could imagine, a bouncy house, a slip and slide, everything — she’s been outside everyday.” “[She’s] just living her best life. I’m trying to keep her entertained,” Jenner continued, adding that Stormi “has no idea what’s going on” in reference to the global health crisis. Story continues Scott, 27, shared a glimpse of Stormi’s daily activities when he posted a video last week of himself and the toddler playing basketball. RELATED:Kylie Jenner’s Daughter Gives Aunt Kim a Shoutout While Watching Keeping up with the Kardashians In the Instagram clip, Scott shoots hoops with Stormi in a backyard basketball court. After the father of one makes a three-pointer, Stormi — wearing gray overalls and a white T-shirt — grabs a ball and adorably tries to score her own basket. It is not clear if Jenner and Scott are social distancing together. Reblog Share Tweet Share What to Read Next Kylie Jenner Says She Would Rather Have a 'Silent' Sexual Partner Than One with a 'Weird' Accent People 5 TSX Stocks for Building Wealth Motley Fool CanadaAd Kylie Jenner Showed Off Her Natural Hair Length on Instagram Harper's Bazaar Luxury Lockdowns of Kylie Jenner and Arielle Charnas Underfire After Breaches of COVID-19 Orders The Daily Beast Kris Jenner 'Wants Travis Scott To Propose' To Kylie Jenner Amid Claims They're Back Together Elle London Singles: 3 Online Dating Sites that Actually Work Top 10 Best Dating SitesAd Kylie Jenner Just Brought The '90s Scrunchie Back And We're Into It Elle COVID-19 in Canada: PM Trudeau, Doug Ford express disappointment in Trump's trade 'mistake' Yahoo News Canada U.S. doctors seek protection from malpractice suits during outbreak Reuters Videos Single Moms in London Looking For a New Beginning Mature Quality SinglesAd 'This is so irresponsible': 'Covidiot' blogger faces backlash for leaving New York City after COVID-19 diagnosis Yahoo Canada Style 'Canada will lose every time:' COVID-19 pandemic threatens Canada-U.S. relations Yahoo News Canada London Zoo: Business as usual behind closed doors Reuters Videos A Natural Formula Can Help Knee and Back Pain Reqvo CreamAd Stephen Dorff Drama ‘Deputy’ Canceled After One Season at Fox The Wrap How Long Does Coronavirus Live In The Air? Here's What We Know. HuffPost Life