Delta police say they stopped sale of medical equipment at inflated prices Home Mail News Sports Finance Celebrity Style Movies Weather Answers Mobile Yahoo Search Search Mail News Home Follow Us Coronavirus Vote 'n' Vent Originals Canada World Business Entertainment Sports Science & Tech Weather Coronavirus updates VOTE: Are you optimistic Canada can lower COVID-19 rates? See the full recap of all the day's events in coronavirus news across the country Delta police say they stopped sale of medical equipment at inflated prices The Canadian Press April 3, 2020 Reblog Share Tweet Share DELTA, B.C. — Police in Delta, B.C., say it was "troubling" to catch two people this week allegedly reselling boxes of respirators and surgical masks at highly inflated prices. The police department says in a news release that a constable found an online ad offering N95 respirators at $15 a piece, plus a $300 delivery fee. The officer arranged a meeting to buy 60 masks for a total $1,200 on Thursday. On Friday, police arranged to meet a separate vendor selling 3,000 surgical masks for $2,200. Both sellers were given $500 bylaw tickets and voluntarily gave up the medical supplies to police, with the second seller relinquishing an additional 2,300 masks. Delta police say they'll work with Fraser Health to determine how the masks can best be put to use. British Columbia's Public Safety Minister Mike Farnworth issued an order under the Emergency Program Act banning the secondary resale of medical supplies and personal protective equipment on March 26. "It’s troubling to see people trying to flout the ministerial order during this pandemic,” Delta police spokesman Cris Leykauf said in the release. This report by The Canadian Press was first published April 3, 2020. The Canadian Press Reblog Share Tweet Share What to Read Next Trump Won’t Wear a Mask, but Should You? The Daily Beast 5 TSX Stocks for Building Wealth Motley Fool CanadaAd Trump Calls Reporter's Tone 'Nasty' While Defending Kushner's Stockpile Remark HuffPost Kenney says he's 'insulted' by Trump order to stop exporting N95 masks to Canada CBC 3M pushes back on Trump administration order to stop sending N95 masks to Canada The Canadian Press London Singles: 3 Online Dating Sites that Actually Work Top 10 Best Dating SitesAd “You Just Asked Your Question In A Very Nasty Tone”: Donald Trump Lashes Out At CBS News Reporter’s Query About Jared Kushner Deadline COVID-19 in Canada: PM Trudeau, Doug Ford express disappointment in Trump's trade 'mistake' Yahoo News Canada U.S. doctors seek protection from malpractice suits during outbreak Reuters Videos Single Moms in London Looking For a New Beginning Mature Quality SinglesAd 'This is so irresponsible': 'Covidiot' blogger faces backlash for leaving New York City after COVID-19 diagnosis Yahoo Canada Style 'Canada will lose every time:' COVID-19 pandemic threatens Canada-U.S. relations Yahoo News Canada London Zoo: Business as usual behind closed doors Reuters Videos A Natural Formula Can Help Knee and Back Pain Reqvo CreamAd How Long Does Coronavirus Live In The Air? Here's What We Know. HuffPost Life Coronavirus cases in Canada: More than 12,000 cases reported, 187 deaths Yahoo News Canada