Infectious disease expert Steve Pergam shares his prescription for a safe weekend get-together Home Mail News Sports Finance Celebrity Style Movies Weather Answers Mobile Yahoo Search Search Mail News Home Follow Us Coronavirus Vote 'n' Vent Originals Canada World Business Entertainment Sports Science & Tech Weather Coronavirus updates VOTE: Are you optimistic Canada can lower COVID-19 rates? See the full recap of all the day's events in coronavirus news across the country Infectious disease expert Steve Pergam shares his prescription for a safe weekend get-together Alan Boyle GeekWire April 4, 2020 Reblog Share Tweet Share Steve Pergam, an infectious disease expert at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center and the Seattle Cancer Care Alliance, answers questions during a Facebook live chat. (Fred Hutch via Facebook)More Need to get out of the house this weekend? Steve Pergam, an epidemiologist at Seattle’s Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, the University of Washington and the Seattle Cancer Care Alliance, acknowledges that maintaining social distancing can leave you feeling “a little discombobulated” – but there are ways to get together safely with friends. Pergam talked about the COVID-19 pandemic and answered questions about coping with it today during a Facebook live chat, conducted from his home study. This week, Washington state’s stay-at-home order was extended to last until May 4 at the earliest. To slow the spread of coronavirus, the standard advice is to limit trips to the essentials, such as stocking up on groceries. Wash hands frequently, avoid touching your face – and if you come in contact with others, keep your distance. Coronavirus Live Updates: The latest COVID-19 developments in Seattle and the world of tech It’s important to be vigilant about symptoms, which can range from the loss of your sense of smell or taste to a persistent dry cough. “You’ll hear me cough occasionally. I don’t have COVID-19, I’ve been tested,” Pergam said during the Facebook chat. “If you have shortness of breath, if you have fever, those are the things that are the big ones.” Pergam acknowledged that if you’re feeling well, you’re eventually going to want to get out of the house and see family and friends. “If you want to start by doing it 6 feet away, and having a conversation, you can meet in public places,” he said. “I’ve seen pictures of people driving up and opening the backs of their cars and all talking together, but being still far away. I’ve had community members, they all pull out their chairs on their porch and they have conversation but they’re still a distance apart. … One way to do it is to do it outside, walking in the fresh air where air movement is a lot more, instead of closed environments.” How long will this have to go on? “It’s hard to predict for sure, but some people feel like June is a point in time when we start to see some periods of being able to lighten the load,” Pergam said. “How we do that is hard. … We don’t want to see that second wave.” For more of Pergam’s advice, including safety tips for cancer patients (starting at the seven-minute mark) and for dog owners (at the 32-minute mark), check out the Facebook video. COVID-19 Q&A Fred Hutch/Seattle Cancer Care Alliance infectious disease expert Dr. Steve Pergam provides an update on the COVID-19 pandemic and answers questions from the audience. Posted by Fred Hutch on Friday, April 3, 2020 More from GeekWire: Geek of the Week: Fred Hutch’s Steve Pergam caught a ‘bug’ for infectious diseases and research Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center signs collaboration deal with Chinese genomics giant BGI How this Seattle startup is using telemedicine to help curb the spread of the coronavirus Robot is helping to treat man with coronavirus in special isolation room at hospital north of Seattle Reblog Share Tweet Share What to Read Next Before suing NSO Group, Facebook allegedly sought their software to better spy on users TechCrunch 5 TSX Stocks for Building Wealth Motley Fool CanadaAd Detroit Bus Driver Who Implored Sick People To Stay Home Dies Of Coronavirus HuffPost IGN To Deliver Global Online Summer of Gaming Event Business Wire How to Host a Virtual Book Club Country Living London Singles: 3 Online Dating Sites that Actually Work Top 10 Best Dating SitesAd Christopher Cross Tests Positive For COVID-19, Claims “Worst Illness I’ve Ever Had” Deadline COVID-19 in Canada: PM Trudeau, Doug Ford express disappointment in Trump's trade 'mistake' Yahoo News Canada U.S. doctors seek protection from malpractice suits during outbreak Reuters Videos Single Moms in London Looking For a New Beginning Mature Quality SinglesAd 'This is so irresponsible': 'Covidiot' blogger faces backlash for leaving New York City after COVID-19 diagnosis Yahoo Canada Style 'Canada will lose every time:' COVID-19 pandemic threatens Canada-U.S. relations Yahoo News Canada London Zoo: Business as usual behind closed doors Reuters Videos A Natural Formula Can Help Knee and Back Pain Reqvo CreamAd Trump Won’t Wear a Mask, but Should You? The Daily Beast How Long Does Coronavirus Live In The Air? Here's What We Know. HuffPost Life