SHAREHOLDER ACTION ALERT: The Schall Law Firm Announces the Filing of a Class Action Lawsuit Against Mesa Air Group, Inc. and Encourages Investors with Losses in Excess of $100,000 to Contact the Firm Home Mail News Sports Finance Celebrity Style Movies Weather Answers Mobile Yahoo Search Search Mail News Home Follow Us Coronavirus Vote 'n' Vent Originals Canada World Business Entertainment Sports Science & Tech Weather Coronavirus updates VOTE: Are you optimistic Canada can lower COVID-19 rates? See the full recap of all the day's events in coronavirus news across the country SHAREHOLDER ACTION ALERT: The Schall Law Firm Announces the Filing of a Class Action Lawsuit Against Mesa Air Group, Inc. and Encourages Investors with Losses in Excess of $100,000 to Contact the Firm Newsfile Corp. Newsfile April 4, 2020 Reblog Share Tweet Share Los Angeles, California--(Newsfile Corp. - April 3, 2020) - The Schall Law Firm, a national shareholder rights litigation firm, announces the filing of a class action lawsuit against Mesa Air Group, Inc. (NASDAQ: MESA) ("Mesa" or "the Company") for violations of §§10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Investors who purchased the Company's securities pursuant and/or traceable to the registration statement and related prospectus (collectively, the "Registration Statement") issued in connection with Mesa's August 2018 initial public stock offering (the "IPO"), are encouraged to contact the firm before June 1, 2020. If you are a shareholder who suffered a loss, click here to participate. We also encourage you to contact Brian Schall of the Schall Law Firm, 1880 Century Park East, Suite 404, Los Angeles, CA 90067, at 310-301-3335, to discuss your rights free of charge. You can also reach us through the firm's website at www.schallfirm.com, or by email at brian@schallfirm.com. The class, in this case, has not yet been certified, and until certification occurs, you are not represented by an attorney. If you choose to take no action, you can remain an absent class member. According to the Complaint, the Company made false and misleading statements to the market. Mesa's operational standards lagged behind industry standards. The Company suffered from a shortage of qualified maintenance personnel. The Company also failed to maintain an adequate level of parts and backup aircraft. The Company did not maintain a track record of reliability. The Company knew of negative trends and uncertainties at the time of the IPO. Based on these facts, the Company's public statements were false and materially misleading throughout the class period. When the market learned the truth about Mesa, investors suffered damages. Join the case to recover your losses. The Schall Law Firm represents investors around the world and specializes in securities class action lawsuits and shareholder rights litigation. This press release may be considered Attorney Advertising in some jurisdictions under the applicable law and rules of ethics. CONTACT: The Schall Law Firm Brian Schall, Esq., www.schallfirm.com Office: 310-301-3335 info@schallfirm.com To view the source version of this press release, please visit https://www.newsfilecorp.com/release/54130 Reblog Share Tweet Share What to Read Next Great Ajax Corp. Announces $80 Million Private Placement Business Wire 5 TSX Stocks for Building Wealth Motley Fool CanadaAd IOU Announces Cost Reduction Initiatives due to the COVID-19 Pandemic CNW Group Luckin Coffee Shareholder Notice: Faruqi & Faruqi, LLP Encourages Investors Who Suffered Losses Investing In Luckin Coffee Inc. To Contact The Firm Newsfile IMPORTANT APRIL DEADLINE REMINDER: The Schall Law Firm Announces the Filing of a Class Action Lawsuit Against Six Flags Entertainment Corporation and Encourages Investors with Losses in Excess of $250,000 to Contact the Firm ACCESSWIRE London Singles: 3 Online Dating Sites that Actually Work Top 10 Best Dating SitesAd COVID-19 in Canada: PM Trudeau, Doug Ford express disappointment in Trump's trade 'mistake' Yahoo News Canada U.S. doctors seek protection from malpractice suits during outbreak Reuters Videos 'This is so irresponsible': 'Covidiot' blogger faces backlash for leaving New York City after COVID-19 diagnosis Yahoo Canada Style New Studies Show Hair Loss Can Be Reversed Shapiro MDAd 'Canada will lose every time:' COVID-19 pandemic threatens Canada-U.S. relations Yahoo News Canada London Zoo: Business as usual behind closed doors Reuters Videos Analysts Have Lowered Expectations For GOME Retail Holdings Limited (HKG:493) After Its Latest Results Simply Wall St. Slot Game Players Have Been Waiting This All Year SlotomaniaAd How Long Does Coronavirus Live In The Air? Here's What We Know. HuffPost Life Coronavirus cases in Canada: More than 12,000 cases reported, 187 deaths Yahoo News Canada