U.S. doctors seek protection from malpractice suits during outbreak [Video] Home Mail News Sports Finance Celebrity Style Movies Weather Answers Mobile Yahoo Search Search Mail News Home Follow Us Coronavirus Vote 'n' Vent Originals Canada World Business Entertainment Sports Science & Tech Weather Coronavirus updates VOTE: Are you optimistic Canada can lower COVID-19 rates? See the full recap of all the day's events in coronavirus news across the country Reblog Share Tweet Share U.S. doctors seek protection from malpractice suits during outbreak Reuters Videos April 3, 2020 As overwhelmed U.S. healthcare workers confront the coronavirus head on - trying to save as many lives as possible with limited resources - they’re confronting another threat… The potential for malpractice lawsuits. Groups representing healthcare providers have been pressing governors for legal protection for decisions made in crisis-stricken emergency rooms. Boston emergency physician Jeremy Faust: (SOUNDBITE) (English) EMERGENCY PHYSICIAN, JEREMY FAUST, SAYING: "We need protection that is temporary. This is not an end-around for litigation reform. This is a response to a moment in time, and we've even seen lawyers posting things online saying 'have your doctors mismanaged your COVID?' like 'call us', like the kind of thing you see on television at two in the morning. So we're seeing that. This is not fantasy or fiction.” A recent image posted on Twitter of a malpractice law firm's website read: "What you should know about medical negligence during the COVID-19 crisis." It’s those types of blogs and ads that have physicians worried - especially as they take on roles outside of their specialties during the pandemic. Governors in New York, New Jersey and Michigan have responded with temporary orders that raised the standard - during the coronavirus outbreak - for injuries or deaths. Physicians, who have long blamed malpractice lawsuits for driving up healthcare costs, hope other states will follow. But some lawyers who deal with medical malpractice cases, like New York's Joe Belluck, are urging caution: (SOUNDBITE) (English) LAWYER, JOE BELLUCK, SAYING: "You know, when they are faced with this type of crisis, we have to be careful that what is enacted or done by executive order is narrowly tailored to the emergency circumstances that we're in. And I think if that's done the right way, it will be something that, you know, everybody involved in the legal system can live with.” Other lawyers who represent patients said an emergency room doctor operating in peak chaos of the outbreak would not be judged against the standard of care provided in a physician's private office. But with the U.S death toll rising fast - anxiety toward lawsuits still remains for healthcare workers on the front line. Reblog Share Tweet Share What to Read Next Western P.E.I. honours health-care workers, first responders with parade CBC 5 TSX Stocks for Building Wealth Motley Fool CanadaAd Statement - Working Together to Fight COVID-19 CNW Group Critic, workers' group 'disappointed' Trudeau chose Amazon to distribute PPE The Canadian Press Beiersdorf Is Creating Hand Sanitizer to Help With Shortages Caused by COVID-19 Allure London Singles: 3 Online Dating Sites that Actually Work Top 10 Best Dating SitesAd Have masks and gloves to spare? New website will get them into the hands of health-care workers CBC COVID-19 in Canada: PM Trudeau, Doug Ford express disappointment in Trump's trade 'mistake' Yahoo News Canada London Zoo: Business as usual behind closed doors Reuters Videos Single Moms in London Looking For a New Beginning Mature Quality SinglesAd 'This is so irresponsible': 'Covidiot' blogger faces backlash for leaving New York City after COVID-19 diagnosis Yahoo Canada Style 'Canada will lose every time:' COVID-19 pandemic threatens Canada-U.S. relations Yahoo News Canada Cougars venture into quarantined Santiago for food Reuters Videos A Natural Formula Can Help Knee and Back Pain Reqvo CreamAd The Latest: Chinese man jailed after not reporting travel The Canadian Press How Long Does Coronavirus Live In The Air? Here's What We Know. HuffPost Life