Maple Leaf Centre for Action on Food Security Commends Swift and Generous Government Action to Support Emergency Food Relief Home Mail News Sports Finance Celebrity Style Movies Weather Answers Mobile Yahoo Search Search Mail News Home Follow Us Coronavirus Vote 'n' Vent Originals Canada World Business Entertainment Sports Science & Tech Weather Coronavirus updates VOTE: Are you optimistic Canada can lower COVID-19 rates? See the full recap of all the day's events in coronavirus news across the country Maple Leaf Centre for Action on Food Security Commends Swift and Generous Government Action to Support Emergency Food Relief CNW Group April 3, 2020 Reblog Share Tweet Share MISSISSAUGA, ON, April 3, 2020 /CNW/ - The Maple Leaf Centre for Action on Food Security commended the Prime Minister's announcement today of $100 million to support emergency food organizations to meet the needs of vulnerable Canadians. Maple Leaf Centre for Action on Food Security (CNW Group/The Maple Leaf Centre For Action On Food Security)More "The federal government has meaningfully engaged with, listened and responded to the needs of front-line emergency food organizations who are struggling to meet surging demand as the COVID-19 pandemic escalates," said Lynda Kuhn, Chair of the Maple Leaf Centre for Action on Food Security. "We laud the government for its action and ongoing collaboration to support the needs of all Canadians during this crisis, especially those who face monumental challenges to feed their families." Food insecurity is a widespread issue in Canada, affecting one in eight households, including one in six children. This is not a food availability issue, it is a poverty issue, which disproportionately impacts low income households and minority group populations. Its impact is pervasive and defies stereotypes, with over 60% of food insecure Canadians in the workforce. The COVID-19 pandemic is not only driving a surge in demand but requiring organizations to significantly shift their services to support the health and safety of their clients and staff. About the Maple Leaf Centre for Action on Food Security: The Maple Leaf Centre for Action on Food Security (the Centre) is a registered charity committed to working collaboratively, across sectors, to reduce food insecurity in Canada by 50% by 2030. The Centre advocates for critical public policies and works with innovative food-based programs that advance the capacity of people and communities to achieve sustainable food security. The Centre was created in 2016 and is governed by a board of directors, including four independent experts. Since its inception, Maple Leaf has contributed a minimum of 1% pre-tax profits annually to support the Centre and other community investments, totalling over $10 million in financial contributions and gifts-in-kind. The Centre builds on its strong connection with Maple Leaf, enabling greater public awareness, volunteer participation and skills matching to increase capacity in community-based organizations. Maple Leaf Foods Inc. (CNW Group/The Maple Leaf Centre For Action On Food Security)More Story continues SOURCE The Maple Leaf Centre For Action On Food Security View photos CisionMore View original content to download multimedia: http://www.newswire.ca/en/releases/archive/April2020/03/c6586.html Reblog Share Tweet Share What to Read Next Nunavut organizations announce $2M boost to community food programs during pandemic CBC 5 TSX Stocks for Building Wealth Motley Fool CanadaAd Food Banks Canada applauds the federal government's significant investment in food banks to deal with COVID-19 crisis CNW Group Food security experts warn of supply shortages, higher prices due to global pandemic CBC US Foods Partners with Retailers Nationwide to Provide Distribution Support Business Wire Single Moms in London Looking For a New Beginning Mature Quality SinglesAd U.S. dairy farmers dump milk as pandemic upends food markets Reuters COVID-19 in Canada: PM Trudeau, Doug Ford express disappointment in Trump's trade 'mistake' Yahoo News Canada U.S. doctors seek protection from malpractice suits during outbreak Reuters Videos London Singles: 3 Online Dating Sites that Actually Work Top 10 Best Dating SitesAd 'This is so irresponsible': 'Covidiot' blogger faces backlash for leaving New York City after COVID-19 diagnosis Yahoo Canada Style 'Canada will lose every time:' COVID-19 pandemic threatens Canada-U.S. relations Yahoo News Canada London Zoo: Business as usual behind closed doors Reuters Videos A Natural Formula Can Help Knee and Back Pain Reqvo CreamAd Body in White Market Insights & Projections to 2027 - ResearchAndMarkets.com Business Wire How Long Does Coronavirus Live In The Air? Here's What We Know. HuffPost Life