Nunavut organizations announce $2M boost to community food programs during pandemic Home Mail News Sports Finance Celebrity Style Movies Weather Answers Mobile Yahoo Search Search Mail News Home Follow Us Coronavirus Vote 'n' Vent Originals Canada World Business Entertainment Sports Science & Tech Weather Coronavirus updates VOTE: Are you optimistic Canada can lower COVID-19 rates? See the full recap of all the day's events in coronavirus news across the country Nunavut organizations announce $2M boost to community food programs during pandemic CBC April 4, 2020 Reblog Share Tweet Share Community food programs that provide meals to children and elders in Nunavut are receiving $2 million in new funding from the territorial government and Nunavut Tunngavik Incorporated, the organization representing Inuit in Nunvaut. The funding was announced in a news release Friday "as a response to the COVID-19 pandemic." NTI and the Nunavut government are each contributing $1 million. As of Friday evening, there were no confirmed cases of COVID-19 in the territory, with 216 tests results still pending. "Food security in Nunavut has always been an issue, and it continues to be an issue," said NTI President Aluki Kotierk at a press conference Friday. "It is a particularly concerning challenge when we are in a global pandemic, when schools are closed, [and] when children who may have relied on breakfast programs are no longer able to rely on that. "It is crucial that we make this investment now," she said. According to the release, funds will be distributed directly to hamlets according to community size. Communities under 1,000 people will receive $40,000, and those over 1,000 will receive $90,000. Iqaluit has been allocated $200,000. "We recognize that it is the communities that are the experts in how best to have these programs delivered," said Kotierk, "and they will be in charge of making sure food security is addressed." Vince Robinet/CBCMore Contribution agreements are expected to be finalized with hamlets next week, according to the release. "Meals are intended to be balanced and healthy, and all food preparation will adhere to physical distancing practices," it reads. "We know that when bodies have the right types of good, nutritious food, they're in a better position to boost their immunity," said Kotierk, calling the spending a "preventative measure." "We want Inuit to be in the position to fight off the virus if it comes to our communities," she said. Kotierk ended the press conference with a plea to Inuit to continue observing physical distancing measures put in place to prevent the spread of COVID-19. "As Inuit, we love to show our love through eating together, by using our kinship network, by showing affection to our children," she said. "And though this is not part of our culture, it is important that we maintain the physical distancing in the short term." Reblog Share Tweet Share What to Read Next The Latest: Chinese man jailed after not reporting travel The Canadian Press Millions In Canada Claim Free Virus Check Today TotalAVAd Why It's Important To 'Buy Local' During A Pandemic HuffPost Canada IOU Announces Cost Reduction Initiatives due to the COVID-19 Pandemic CNW Group Maple Leaf Centre for Action on Food Security Commends Swift and Generous Government Action to Support Emergency Food Relief CNW Group 5 TSX Stocks for Building Wealth Motley Fool CanadaAd Comedy Central to Shop David Spade’s ‘Lights Out’; Show Won’t Return to ViacomCBS Cabler (EXCLUSIVE) Variety COVID-19 in Canada: PM Trudeau, Doug Ford express disappointment in Trump's trade 'mistake' Yahoo News Canada U.S. doctors seek protection from malpractice suits during outbreak Reuters Videos London Singles: 3 Online Dating Sites that Actually Work Top 10 Best Dating SitesAd 'This is so irresponsible': 'Covidiot' blogger faces backlash for leaving New York City after COVID-19 diagnosis Yahoo Canada Style 'Canada will lose every time:' COVID-19 pandemic threatens Canada-U.S. relations Yahoo News Canada London Zoo: Business as usual behind closed doors Reuters Videos London: Dating Site for Serious Relationships Mature Quality SinglesAd How Long Does Coronavirus Live In The Air? Here's What We Know. HuffPost Life Coronavirus cases in Canada: More than 12,000 cases reported, 187 deaths Yahoo News Canada