Cougars venture into quarantined Santiago for food [Video] Home Mail News Sports Finance Celebrity Style Movies Weather Answers Mobile Yahoo Search Search Mail News Home Follow Us Coronavirus Vote 'n' Vent Originals Canada World Business Entertainment Sports Science & Tech Weather Coronavirus updates VOTE: Are you optimistic Canada can lower COVID-19 rates? See the full recap of all the day's events in coronavirus news across the country Reblog Share Tweet Share Cougars venture into quarantined Santiago for food Reuters Videos April 2, 2020 A cougar ventures into the empty streets of Santiago - a surreal image for this normally bustling city. The 25-kilo female is the second cougar discovered in Santiago in a little over a week. Regional Agriculture Director Marcelo Giagnoni says the cougars are emboldened by the scarcity of humans.. (SOUNDBITE) (Spanish) REGIONAL DIRECTOR OF THE AGRICULTURE AND LIVESTOCK SERVICE, MARCELO GIAGNONI, SAYING: "The world has never been paralyzed like today. We have these cases of cougars, we have seen in the news of other countries another type of fauna that enters the city, for the same reason - humans aren't there, there is no noise, they dare to explore a little more. So, we don't have previous statistics because I believe that this is a unique phenomenon we are all experiencing today." Experts say a severe drought in foothills around Santiago had likely already brought the cats, desperate for food, to the city´s door step. For the cougar captured last week roaming through an upscale santiago neighborhood - It was a happy ending. She was released back into the wild just a few short days later after vets said she was in excellent health -- the second cougar has been tranquilized and taken to Santiago's Metropolitan Park zoo for health evaluation. Reblog Share Tweet Share What to Read Next Chilean telescopes that explore galaxies brought down to earth by coronavirus Reuters 5 TSX Stocks for Building Wealth Motley Fool CanadaAd COVID-19 in Canada: PM Trudeau, Doug Ford express disappointment in Trump's trade 'mistake' Yahoo News Canada U.S. doctors seek protection from malpractice suits during outbreak Reuters Videos 'This is so irresponsible': 'Covidiot' blogger faces backlash for leaving New York City after COVID-19 diagnosis Yahoo Canada Style London Singles: 3 Online Dating Sites that Actually Work Top 10 Best Dating SitesAd 'Canada will lose every time:' COVID-19 pandemic threatens Canada-U.S. relations Yahoo News Canada London Zoo: Business as usual behind closed doors Reuters Videos Sea lion shot by crossbow and gun released back into the wild CBC Single Moms in London Looking For a New Beginning Mature Quality SinglesAd How Long Does Coronavirus Live In The Air? Here's What We Know. HuffPost Life Coronavirus cases in Canada: More than 12,000 cases reported, 187 deaths Yahoo News Canada Trudeau rejects mandatory stay-at-home order for now; COVID deaths up The Canadian Press TD Insurance Auto Centres TD InsuranceAd Two fearless pet dogs go face-to-face with five-foot-long cobra in India Newsflare The CDC Advises Everyone To Wear Masks In Public HuffPost