Feds urge med students, retirees to volunteer in the fight against COVID-19 Home Mail News Sports Finance Celebrity Style Movies Weather Answers Mobile Yahoo Search Search Mail News Home Follow Us Coronavirus Vote 'n' Vent Originals Canada World Business Entertainment Sports Science & Tech Weather Coronavirus updates VOTE: Are you optimistic Canada can lower COVID-19 rates? See the full recap of all the day's events in coronavirus news across the country Feds urge med students, retirees to volunteer in the fight against COVID-19 The Canadian Press April 3, 2020 Reblog Share Tweet Share OTTAWA — The federal government is seeking volunteers with medical experience to provide backup support in the fight against COVID-19. Health Canada is creating a database of specialized volunteers provinces and territories can draw on to help track down people who have been in contact with positive cases, collect data and provide surge capacity at hospitals. The online application process was launched this week. "It's asking people who have the skill set to do public health, like contact-tracing and other skills that provinces are looking for, to apply," said chief public health officer Dr. Theresa Tam. Most public health agencies in major jurisdictions still have the resources to try to track down the close contacts of every person confirmed to have contracted COVID-19 to try to break the chains of transmission, Tam said. They tell those contacts that they might have been exposed to the illness and to take preventive measures. It's a vital effort in the fight against the virus and, as cases increase, the people doing the work are likely to become overloaded and will need the help, she said. That's where medical students come in. "All of us are itching to contribute in some way," said Heidi Li, a third-year medical student at the University of Ottawa. Like other medical students in the country, Li's spring clinical rotation was cancelled due to the pandemic, leaving her to look for other ways to help. In a few years, she and her fellow students will be on the front lines and she said she wants to help her colleagues who are already doing the work. "It's great that everyone would have a chance to help out in a safe way and effective way," Li said. The Middlesex-London Health Unit in southern Ontario has already recruited 60 medical students from Western University to join their efforts against the virus. "I think it’s good for them, I think it’s good for us," said Dr. Chris Mackie, the Middlesex-London medical officer of health. The medical school offered the help, he said, and the health unit was keen to take it. The students' clinical experience and wealth of medical knowledge will be put to good use, he said. "This sort of thing is going to be needed as we reach the peak over the next coming weeks," Mackie said. The first group of 30 medical students were trained remotely Friday morning, and another group will be trained next week. They will be able to do the work from home. The federal program aims to make similar volunteers available on a greater scale. The applications will be open until April 24. This report by The Canadian Press was first published April 3, 2020. Laura Osman, The Canadian Press Reblog Share Tweet Share What to Read Next Some internationally trained doctors can apply for 30-day Ontario licence to fight COVID-19 CBC 5 TSX Stocks for Building Wealth Motley Fool CanadaAd ‘This Is What We Signed Up For’: Meet the Med School Grads Fast-Tracked to the Coronavirus Front Line The Daily Beast COVID-19 in Canada: PM Trudeau, Doug Ford express disappointment in Trump's trade 'mistake' Yahoo News Canada U.S. doctors seek protection from malpractice suits during outbreak Reuters Videos London Singles: 3 Online Dating Sites that Actually Work Top 10 Best Dating SitesAd 'This is so irresponsible': 'Covidiot' blogger faces backlash for leaving New York City after COVID-19 diagnosis Yahoo Canada Style 'Canada will lose every time:' COVID-19 pandemic threatens Canada-U.S. relations Yahoo News Canada London Zoo: Business as usual behind closed doors Reuters Videos Single Moms in London Looking For a New Beginning Mature Quality SinglesAd The Latest: Chinese man jailed after not reporting travel The Canadian Press How Long Does Coronavirus Live In The Air? Here's What We Know. HuffPost Life Coronavirus cases in Canada: More than 12,000 cases reported, 187 deaths Yahoo News Canada A Natural Formula Can Help Knee and Back Pain Reqvo CreamAd Trudeau rejects mandatory stay-at-home order for now; COVID deaths up The Canadian Press Cougars venture into quarantined Santiago for food Reuters Videos