Food Banks Canada applauds the federal government's significant investment in food banks to deal with COVID-19 crisis Home Mail News Sports Finance Celebrity Style Movies Weather Answers Mobile Yahoo Search Search Mail News Home Follow Us Coronavirus Vote 'n' Vent Originals Canada World Business Entertainment Sports Science & Tech Weather Coronavirus updates VOTE: Are you optimistic Canada can lower COVID-19 rates? See the full recap of all the day's events in coronavirus news across the country Food Banks Canada applauds the federal government's significant investment in food banks to deal with COVID-19 crisis CNW Group April 3, 2020 Reblog Share Tweet Share TORONTO, April 3, 2020 /CNW/ - Today's announcement from the federal government is welcomed with a sigh of relief from Food Banks Canada and the over 3,000 food banks and community agencies that come together to serve our most vulnerable neighbours. The $100 million investment, with $50 million going to Food Banks Canada, will help improve access to food for Canadians facing social, economic, and health impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic in the short term. Food Banks Canada (CNW Group/Food Banks Canada)More "We are very grateful for this investment by the federal government," says Chris Hatch, CEO, Food Banks Canada. "We give our heartfelt thanks on behalf of all Canadians struggling with food insecurity, particularly in these uncertain times, when the need is likely to grow to levels we have never seen before." Food Banks Canada has been in regular discussions with the government, informing them of the reality of food banks on the frontline and exploring ways to support our vulnerable neighbours who face tremendous challenges, especially as concerns over the COVID-19 pandemic grow. Given the likely long-term economic impact of COVID-19, additional support from all levels of governments will no doubt be necessary. Food banks across Canada have been severely impacted by COVID-19. They are facing increased demand for support, and operational capacity is strained. Many have seen drastic reductions in their food recovery efforts as well as a significant drop in volunteers. Yet, they are working tirelessly to serve those who rely on their services to feel safe and healthy. Hatch continues, "With the growing need, it is important – now more than ever - to ensure that the most vulnerable people in Canada are not left behind. We need to look after our neighbours in need." According to HungerCount 2019, an annual report released by Food Banks Canada that analyzes data from thousands of food banks across the country, Canadians already made more than one million visits to food banks every month prior to the growing COVID-19 crisis. As we see a rise in company closures, layoffs and EI applications, we know that it will have a trickle-down effect on food banks. To put this into perspective, during the Great Recession of 2008, food banks across Canada saw an increase of 200,000 additional clients each month, which equated to a 28% increase at the time and we anticipate an even larger increase in need resulting from the coronavirus crisis. This funding will allow food banks to continue to purchase food and other necessities. It will also help find new ways of reaching people in need, so we can continue to serve those living with food insecurity while addressing the health-related challenges presented by COVID-19. About Food Banks Canada Food Banks Canada provides national leadership to relieve hunger today and prevent hunger tomorrow in collaboration with the food bank network from coast-to-coast-to-coast. For 40 years, food banks have been dedicated to helping Canadians living with food insecurity. Over 3,000 food banks and community agencies come together to serve our most vulnerable neighbours who – last year – made 1.1 million visits to these organizations in one month alone, according to our HungerCount report. Over the past 10 years, as a system we've sourced and shared over 1.4 billion pounds of food and Food Banks Canada shared nearly $70 million in funding to help maximize collective impact and strengthen local capacity – while advocating for reducing the need for food banks. Our vision is clear: create a Canada where no one goes hungry. Visit www.foodbankscanada.ca to learn more. Story continues SOURCE Food Banks Canada View photos CisionMore View original content to download multimedia: http://www.newswire.ca/en/releases/archive/April2020/03/c7989.html Reblog Share Tweet Share What to Read Next Nunavut organizations announce $2M boost to community food programs during pandemic CBC 5 TSX Stocks for Building Wealth Motley Fool CanadaAd Wolfhead Distillery distributes hand sanitizer, collects donation for Amherstburg food bank CBC Maple Leaf Centre for Action on Food Security Commends Swift and Generous Government Action to Support Emergency Food Relief CNW Group Food security experts warn of supply shortages, higher prices due to global pandemic CBC London Singles: 3 Online Dating Sites that Actually Work Top 10 Best Dating SitesAd US Foods Partners with Retailers Nationwide to Provide Distribution Support Business Wire COVID-19 in Canada: PM Trudeau, Doug Ford express disappointment in Trump's trade 'mistake' Yahoo News Canada U.S. doctors seek protection from malpractice suits during outbreak Reuters Videos Single Moms in London Looking For a New Beginning Mature Quality SinglesAd 'This is so irresponsible': 'Covidiot' blogger faces backlash for leaving New York City after COVID-19 diagnosis Yahoo Canada Style 'Canada will lose every time:' COVID-19 pandemic threatens Canada-U.S. relations Yahoo News Canada London Zoo: Business as usual behind closed doors Reuters Videos A Natural Formula Can Help Knee and Back Pain Reqvo CreamAd Body in White Market Insights & Projections to 2027 - ResearchAndMarkets.com Business Wire How Long Does Coronavirus Live In The Air? Here's What We Know. HuffPost Life