Turkey Quarantines Largest Cities to Slow Coronavirus Outbreak Home Mail News Sports Finance Celebrity Style Movies Weather Answers Mobile Yahoo Search Search Mail News Home Follow Us Coronavirus Vote 'n' Vent Originals Canada World Business Entertainment Sports Science & Tech Weather Coronavirus updates VOTE: Are you optimistic Canada can lower COVID-19 rates? See the full recap of all the day's events in coronavirus news across the country Turkey Quarantines Largest Cities to Slow Coronavirus Outbreak Firat Kozok and Constantine Courcoulas Bloomberg April 3, 2020 Reblog Share Tweet Share Turkey Quarantines Largest Cities to Slow Coronavirus OutbreakMore (Bloomberg) -- Turkey imposed stricter measures to slow the spread of the country’s coronavirus outbreak by placing 31 cities under quarantine and banning people under the age of 20 from leaving their homes nationwide. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan announced the measures -- which prohibits entries into and exit from Turkey’s largest cities, including the commercial hub Istanbul for 15 days -- in a televised address on Friday after the death toll from the disease rose 19% to 425 and the number of confirmed cases rose 15% to 20,921. Turks over the age of 65 have been told not to venture out since March 22 as authorities seek to protect some of the nation’s most vulnerable citizens. A board of top scientists urged the government to broaden those restrictions to younger people, whose mobility has emerged as a key weakness in the strategy against the virus, Health Minister Fahrettin Koca said. Below is a brief summary of the Turkish president’s speech: The quarantine initially holds for 15 days and applies to Turkey’s major cities such as Istanbul, where a bulk of the cases have been identified. The province of Zonguldak, where respiratory illnesses are more common than elsewhere, is also includedWearing a mask in public places and crowded factories is now mandatory for everyoneThe government’s strategy is to make sure that people leave their homes only for work or to meet basic needs Turkey Imposes Curfew for People Over 65 as Virus Toll Rises The quarantine marks a possible turning point for Turkey, which has so far avoided strict lockdowns imposed in other parts of the world. Earlier in the outbreak, Turkey suspended flights from abroad, intercity travel was banned unless officially authorized and schools will remain shut for at least another month. For more articles like this, please visit us at bloomberg.com Subscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source. ©2020 Bloomberg L.P. Reblog Share Tweet Share What to Read Next Turkey imposes curfew on youth, shuts borders of 31 cities: Erdogan Reuters 5 TSX Stocks for Building Wealth Motley Fool CanadaAd COVID-19 in Canada: PM Trudeau, Doug Ford express disappointment in Trump's trade 'mistake' Yahoo News Canada U.S. doctors seek protection from malpractice suits during outbreak Reuters Videos 'This is so irresponsible': 'Covidiot' blogger faces backlash for leaving New York City after COVID-19 diagnosis Yahoo Canada Style London Singles: 3 Online Dating Sites that Actually Work Top 10 Best Dating SitesAd 'Canada will lose every time:' COVID-19 pandemic threatens Canada-U.S. relations Yahoo News Canada London Zoo: Business as usual behind closed doors Reuters Videos The Latest: Chinese man jailed after not reporting travel The Canadian Press Single Moms in London Looking For a New Beginning Mature Quality SinglesAd How Long Does Coronavirus Live In The Air? Here's What We Know. HuffPost Life Coronavirus cases in Canada: More than 12,000 cases reported, 187 deaths Yahoo News Canada Trudeau rejects mandatory stay-at-home order for now; COVID deaths up The Canadian Press A Natural Formula Can Help Knee and Back Pain Reqvo CreamAd Cougars venture into quarantined Santiago for food Reuters Videos Trump Won’t Wear a Mask, but Should You? The Daily Beast