Turkey imposes curfew on youth, shuts borders of 31 cities: Erdogan Home Mail News Sports Finance Celebrity Style Movies Weather Answers Mobile Yahoo Search Search Mail News Home Follow Us Coronavirus Vote 'n' Vent Originals Canada World Business Entertainment Sports Science & Tech Weather Coronavirus updates VOTE: Are you optimistic Canada can lower COVID-19 rates? See the full recap of all the day's events in coronavirus news across the country Turkey imposes curfew on youth, shuts borders of 31 cities: Erdogan Reuters April 3, 2020 Reblog Share Tweet Share Turkish President Erdogan attends a videoconference with G20 leaders to discuss the coronavirus disease outbreakMore ISTANBUL (Reuters) - Turkey imposed a partial curfew on citizens under the age of 20 effective from midnight on Friday as part of measures against the coronavirus outbreak, President Tayyip Erdogan said. Turkey also decided to shut down the borders of 31 cities, including Istanbul, for all vehicles, excluding transit passage and essential supplies such as food, medical and sanitary products, to contain the disease, Erdogan said. Turkey's death toll from the outbreak rose to 425 on Friday, while the number of confirmed cases from the disease rose to over 20,000, Health Minister Fahrettin Koca said. "We have decided to bring partial curfew into effect for people under the age of 20 as of midnight Friday," Erdogan said. "The shutdown of city borders will be in effect for 15 days initially, however this period can be extended if necessary," Erdogan told a news conference. Mask usage in crowded public places, in public transport, grocery stores and workplaces will be obligatory, he also said. Ankara has halted all international flights, limited domestic travel, closed schools, bars and cafes and suspended mass prayers to counter the outbreak. But people are still going to work, as Erdogan seeks to sustain economic production and exports. In late March, Turkey ordered elderly citizens over 65, and those with chronic diseases to stay at home. (Reporting by Ezgi Erkoyun; Editing by Chris Reese, William Maclean) Reblog Share Tweet Share What to Read Next Turkey Quarantines Largest Cities to Slow Coronavirus Outbreak Bloomberg 5 TSX Stocks for Building Wealth Motley Fool CanadaAd Turkey's coronavirus death toll rises to 425, total cases 20,921: health minister Reuters Coronavirus: William and Kate tell NHS 'the whole country is proud of you' Yahoo Style UK Istanbul mayor says time running out to halt coronavirus spread Reuters London Singles: 3 Online Dating Sites that Actually Work Top 10 Best Dating SitesAd Latest on the spread of the coronavirus around the world Reuters COVID-19 in Canada: PM Trudeau, Doug Ford express disappointment in Trump's trade 'mistake' Yahoo News Canada U.S. doctors seek protection from malpractice suits during outbreak Reuters Videos Single Moms in London Looking For a New Beginning Mature Quality SinglesAd 'This is so irresponsible': 'Covidiot' blogger faces backlash for leaving New York City after COVID-19 diagnosis Yahoo Canada Style 'Canada will lose every time:' COVID-19 pandemic threatens Canada-U.S. relations Yahoo News Canada London Zoo: Business as usual behind closed doors Reuters Videos A Natural Formula Can Help Knee and Back Pain Reqvo CreamAd The Latest: Chinese man jailed after not reporting travel The Canadian Press How Long Does Coronavirus Live In The Air? Here's What We Know. HuffPost Life