Shop Chuck Taylor sneakers during Nordstrom's spring sale Home Mail News Sports Finance Celebrity Style Movies Weather Answers Mobile Yahoo Search Search Mail News Home Follow Us Coronavirus Vote 'n' Vent Originals Canada World Business Entertainment Sports Science & Tech Weather Coronavirus updates VOTE: Are you optimistic Canada can lower COVID-19 rates? See the full recap of all the day's events in coronavirus news across the country The best Chuck Taylor sneakers hiding in Nordstrom's spring sale Vinciane Ngomsi Yahoo Sports Contributor Yahoo Sports April 3, 2020 Reblog Share Tweet Share Spring has sprung, and Nordstrom is celebrating warmer weather with an incredible spring sale. The retail giant recently discounted thousands of their bestselling products. From outerwear to activewear, you can save big while supplies last. One of the most eye-catching items hiding in the sale are Chuck Taylor sneakers, the iconic high-top kicks made famous by the late semi-professional basketball star of the same name. Since their 20th century debut, Chuck Taylor sneakers have sold well over 600 million pairs with hundreds of colorways for every aesthetic. For a limited time only, you can save up to 40% off select Chuck Taylor kicks. We found a classic high-top look, a pastel colorway perfect for this time of year and a platform style that adds a little height. Styles any fan of the iconic brand would want in their closet. No coupon code is necessary, but sizes are already selling quickly. Shop the best-selling looks below. Yahoo Sports is committed to finding you the best products at the best prices. We may receive a share from purchases made via links on this page. Pricing and availability is subject to change. Reblog Share Tweet Share What to Read Next 13 Incredible Deals to Shop at Nordstrom This Weekend — Including the Leggings Practically Every Celeb Owns for 25% Off People 5 TSX Stocks for Building Wealth Motley Fool CanadaAd Surprise! Nordstrom Just Dropped Amazing Deals on Celeb-Loved Denim People The 3 Best Sales Happening This Weekend and Exactly What to Buy People London Singles: 3 Online Dating Sites that Actually Work Top 10 Best Dating SitesAd Here Are The Best Sales This Weekend HuffPost Life COVID-19 in Canada: PM Trudeau, Doug Ford express disappointment in Trump's trade 'mistake' Yahoo News Canada U.S. doctors seek protection from malpractice suits during outbreak Reuters Videos Single Moms in London Looking For a New Beginning Mature Quality SinglesAd 'This is so irresponsible': 'Covidiot' blogger faces backlash for leaving New York City after COVID-19 diagnosis Yahoo Canada Style 'Canada will lose every time:' COVID-19 pandemic threatens Canada-U.S. relations Yahoo News Canada London Zoo: Business as usual behind closed doors Reuters Videos The Natural Formula for Back and Knee Pain Relief Reqvo CreamAd The Latest: NCAA suspends infraction hearings, arguments The Associated Press How Long Does Coronavirus Live In The Air? Here's What We Know. HuffPost Life Coronavirus cases in Canada: More than 12,000 cases reported, 187 deaths Yahoo News Canada