Coronavirus: Trump says hospitals will be reimbursed for treating uninsured patients Home Mail News Sports Finance Celebrity Style Movies Weather Answers Mobile Yahoo Search Search Mail News Home Follow Us Coronavirus Vote 'n' Vent Originals Canada World Business Entertainment Sports Science & Tech Weather Coronavirus updates VOTE: Are you optimistic Canada can lower COVID-19 rates? See the full recap of all the day's events in coronavirus news across the country Coronavirus: Trump says hospitals will be reimbursed for treating uninsured patients John T Bennett The Independent April 3, 2020 Reblog Share Tweet Share Trying to make it easier for uninsured Americans to seek treatment for coronavirus, hospitals who treat uncovered victims of the disease will be reimbursed by the federal government, Donald Trump announced Friday. "Today, I can so proudly announce that hospitals and health care providers treating uninsured coronavirus patients will be reimbursed by the federal government," the president said during his daily Covid-19 briefing. "This should alleviate any concern uninsured Americans may have about seeking the coronavirus treatment." Mr Trump again tried to blame the Obama administration for a lack of medical equipment and supplies, saying, "the shelves were empty." But senior officials who worked in the Obama administration have said they left the federal government prepared, shooting back that Mr Trump's dismissive attitude towards the virus in the late winter and early spring doomed America to a major outbreak. On Thursday, Vice President Mike Pence said the administration will "find a way" to pay for the coronavirus treatment of uninsured people. He said an announcement will come on 3 April. The Economic Policy Institute has urged the White House to extend the open enrolment period for the 38 states that have access to Affordable Care Act insurance exchanges. --Alex Woodward contributed to this report. More follows… Reblog Share Tweet Share What to Read Next Why It's Important To 'Buy Local' During A Pandemic HuffPost Canada 5 TSX Stocks for Building Wealth Motley Fool CanadaAd COVID-19 in Canada: PM Trudeau, Doug Ford express disappointment in Trump's trade 'mistake' Yahoo News Canada U.S. doctors seek protection from malpractice suits during outbreak Reuters Videos 'This is so irresponsible': 'Covidiot' blogger faces backlash for leaving New York City after COVID-19 diagnosis Yahoo Canada Style London Singles: 3 Online Dating Sites that Actually Work Top 10 Best Dating SitesAd 'Canada will lose every time:' COVID-19 pandemic threatens Canada-U.S. relations Yahoo News Canada London Zoo: Business as usual behind closed doors Reuters Videos The Latest: Chinese man jailed after not reporting travel The Canadian Press Single Moms in London Looking For a New Beginning Mature Quality SinglesAd How Long Does Coronavirus Live In The Air? Here's What We Know. HuffPost Life Coronavirus cases in Canada: More than 12,000 cases reported, 187 deaths Yahoo News Canada Trudeau rejects mandatory stay-at-home order for now; COVID deaths up The Canadian Press A Natural Formula Can Help Knee and Back Pain Reqvo CreamAd Cougars venture into quarantined Santiago for food Reuters Videos No spouses, doulahs allowed on Jewish General Hospital's maternity ward for duration of pandemic CBC