Aduro Biotech (ADRO) Gains As Market Dips: What You Should Know Home Mail News Sports Finance Celebrity Style Movies Weather Answers Mobile Yahoo Search Search Mail News Home Follow Us Coronavirus Vote 'n' Vent Originals Canada World Business Entertainment Sports Science & Tech Weather Coronavirus updates VOTE: Are you optimistic Canada can lower COVID-19 rates? See the full recap of all the day's events in coronavirus news across the country Aduro Biotech (ADRO) Gains As Market Dips: What You Should Know Zacks Equity Research Zacks April 3, 2020 Reblog Share Tweet Share Aduro Biotech (ADRO) closed the most recent trading day at $2.54, moving +1.2% from the previous trading session. This change outpaced the S&P 500's 1.51% loss on the day. Meanwhile, the Dow lost 1.69%, and the Nasdaq, a tech-heavy index, lost 1.53%. Heading into today, shares of the drug developer had lost 24.63% over the past month, lagging the Medical sector's loss of 10.33% and the S&P 500's loss of 18.13% in that time. Wall Street will be looking for positivity from ADRO as it approaches its next earnings report date. The company is expected to report EPS of -$0.11, up 62.07% from the prior-year quarter. Our most recent consensus estimate is calling for quarterly revenue of $8.81 million, up 123.6% from the year-ago period. Looking at the full year, our Zacks Consensus Estimates suggest analysts are expecting earnings of -$0.71 per share and revenue of $18.24 million. These totals would mark changes of +31.07% and +5.67%, respectively, from last year. It is also important to note the recent changes to analyst estimates for ADRO. These revisions help to show the ever-changing nature of near-term business trends. With this in mind, we can consider positive estimate revisions a sign of optimism about the company's business outlook. Our research shows that these estimate changes are directly correlated with near-term stock prices. Investors can capitalize on this by using the Zacks Rank. This model considers these estimate changes and provides a simple, actionable rating system. The Zacks Rank system ranges from #1 (Strong Buy) to #5 (Strong Sell). It has a remarkable, outside-audited track record of success, with #1 stocks delivering an average annual return of +25% since 1988. Within the past 30 days, our consensus EPS projection has moved 8.03% higher. ADRO currently has a Zacks Rank of #2 (Buy). The Medical - Biomedical and Genetics industry is part of the Medical sector. This industry currently has a Zacks Industry Rank of 30, which puts it in the top 12% of all 250+ industries. The Zacks Industry Rank gauges the strength of our industry groups by measuring the average Zacks Rank of the individual stocks within the groups. Our research shows that the top 50% rated industries outperform the bottom half by a factor of 2 to 1. Make sure to utilize Zacks. Com to follow all of these stock-moving metrics, and more, in the coming trading sessions. Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report Aduro Biotech, Inc. (ADRO) : Free Stock Analysis Report To read this article on Zacks.com click here. Reblog Share Tweet Share What to Read Next COVID-19 in Canada: PM Trudeau, Doug Ford express disappointment in Trump's trade 'mistake' Yahoo News Canada 5 TSX Stocks for Building Wealth Motley Fool CanadaAd U.S. doctors seek protection from malpractice suits during outbreak Reuters Videos 'This is so irresponsible': 'Covidiot' blogger faces backlash for leaving New York City after COVID-19 diagnosis Yahoo Canada Style 'Canada will lose every time:' COVID-19 pandemic threatens Canada-U.S. relations Yahoo News Canada London Singles: 3 Online Dating Sites that Actually Work Top 10 Best Dating SitesAd London Zoo: Business as usual behind closed doors Reuters Videos Analysts Have Lowered Expectations For GOME Retail Holdings Limited (HKG:493) After Its Latest Results Simply Wall St. How Long Does Coronavirus Live In The Air? Here's What We Know. HuffPost Life Single Moms in London Looking For a New Beginning Mature Quality SinglesAd Coronavirus cases in Canada: More than 12,000 cases reported, 187 deaths Yahoo News Canada Trudeau rejects mandatory stay-at-home order for now; COVID deaths up The Canadian Press Cougars venture into quarantined Santiago for food Reuters Videos A Natural Formula Can Help Knee and Back Pain Reqvo CreamAd What Can We Learn From Fujikon Industrial Holdings Limited’s (HKG:927) Investment Returns? Simply Wall St. The CDC Advises Everyone To Wear Masks In Public HuffPost