Is Fosun International Limited (HKG:656) Investing Your Capital Efficiently? Home Mail News Sports Finance Celebrity Style Movies Weather Answers Mobile Yahoo Search Search Mail News Home Follow Us Coronavirus Vote 'n' Vent Originals Canada World Business Entertainment Sports Science & Tech Weather Coronavirus updates VOTE: Are you optimistic Canada can lower COVID-19 rates? See the full recap of all the day's events in coronavirus news across the country Is Fosun International Limited (HKG:656) Investing Your Capital Efficiently? Simply Wall St Simply Wall St. April 3, 2020 Reblog Share Tweet Share View photos Today we'll look at Fosun International Limited (HKG:656) and reflect on its potential as an investment. In particular, we'll consider its Return On Capital Employed (ROCE), as that can give us insight into how profitably the company is able to employ capital in its business. First up, we'll look at what ROCE is and how we calculate it. Next, we'll compare it to others in its industry. And finally, we'll look at how its current liabilities are impacting its ROCE. Understanding Return On Capital Employed (ROCE) ROCE measures the 'return' (pre-tax profit) a company generates from capital employed in its business. In general, businesses with a higher ROCE are usually better quality. Ultimately, it is a useful but imperfect metric. Renowned investment researcher Michael Mauboussin has suggested that a high ROCE can indicate that 'one dollar invested in the company generates value of more than one dollar'. So, How Do We Calculate ROCE? The formula for calculating the return on capital employed is: Return on Capital Employed = Earnings Before Interest and Tax (EBIT) ÷ (Total Assets - Current Liabilities) Or for Fosun International: 0.022 = CN¥9.9b ÷ (CN¥716b - CN¥268b) (Based on the trailing twelve months to December 2019.) So, Fosun International has an ROCE of 2.2%. See our latest analysis for Fosun International Is Fosun International's ROCE Good? ROCE is commonly used for comparing the performance of similar businesses. We can see Fosun International's ROCE is meaningfully below the Industrials industry average of 3.1%. This could be seen as a negative, as it suggests some competitors may be employing their capital more efficiently. Independently of how Fosun International compares to its industry, its ROCE in absolute terms is low; especially compared to the ~1.6% available in government bonds. It is likely that there are more attractive prospects out there. Fosun International has an ROCE of 2.2%, but it didn't have an ROCE 3 years ago, since it was unprofitable. This makes us wonder if the company is improving. The image below shows how Fosun International's ROCE compares to its industry, and you can click it to see more detail on its past growth. SEHK:656 Past Revenue and Net Income April 3rd 2020More When considering this metric, keep in mind that it is backwards looking, and not necessarily predictive. Companies in cyclical industries can be difficult to understand using ROCE, as returns typically look high during boom times, and low during busts. ROCE is, after all, simply a snap shot of a single year. Since the future is so important for investors, you should check out our free report on analyst forecasts for Fosun International. Fosun International's Current Liabilities And Their Impact On Its ROCE Current liabilities include invoices, such as supplier payments, short-term debt, or a tax bill, that need to be paid within 12 months. Due to the way ROCE is calculated, a high level of current liabilities makes a company look as though it has less capital employed, and thus can (sometimes unfairly) boost the ROCE. To counter this, investors can check if a company has high current liabilities relative to total assets. Fosun International has total assets of CN¥716b and current liabilities of CN¥268b. As a result, its current liabilities are equal to approximately 38% of its total assets. In light of sufficient current liabilities to noticeably boost the ROCE, Fosun International's ROCE is concerning. Story continues Our Take On Fosun International's ROCE There are likely better investments out there. But note: make sure you look for a great company, not just the first idea you come across. So take a peek at this free list of interesting companies with strong recent earnings growth (and a P/E ratio below 20). If you like to buy stocks alongside management, then you might just love this free list of companies. (Hint: insiders have been buying them). If you spot an error that warrants correction, please contact the editor at editorial-team@simplywallst.com. This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. Simply Wall St has no position in the stocks mentioned. We aim to bring you long-term focused research analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Thank you for reading. Reblog Share Tweet Share What to Read Next Why We’re Not Keen On L.B. Foster Company’s (NASDAQ:FSTR) 8.5% Return On Capital Simply Wall St. 5 TSX Stocks for Building Wealth Motley Fool CanadaAd Shareholders Should Look Hard At Pittards plc’s (LON:PTD) 6.3%Return On Capital Simply Wall St. Why You Should Like Viafin Service Oyj’s (HEL:VIAFIN) ROCE Simply Wall St. Shareholders Should Look Hard At Digital China Holdings Limited’s (HKG:861) 3.4%Return On Capital Simply Wall St. London Singles: 3 Online Dating Sites that Actually Work Top 10 Best Dating SitesAd Why You Should Like Ocean Line Port Development Limited’s (HKG:8502) ROCE Simply Wall St. COVID-19 in Canada: PM Trudeau, Doug Ford express disappointment in Trump's trade 'mistake' Yahoo News Canada U.S. doctors seek protection from malpractice suits during outbreak Reuters Videos Single Moms in London Looking For a New Beginning Mature Quality SinglesAd 'This is so irresponsible': 'Covidiot' blogger faces backlash for leaving New York City after COVID-19 diagnosis Yahoo Canada Style 'Canada will lose every time:' COVID-19 pandemic threatens Canada-U.S. relations Yahoo News Canada London Zoo: Business as usual behind closed doors Reuters Videos A Natural Formula Can Help Knee and Back Pain Reqvo CreamAd Analysts Have Lowered Expectations For GOME Retail Holdings Limited (HKG:493) After Its Latest Results Simply Wall St. How Long Does Coronavirus Live In The Air? Here's What We Know. HuffPost Life