London Zoo: Business as usual behind closed doors [Video] Home Mail News Sports Finance Celebrity Style Movies Weather Answers Mobile Yahoo Search Search Mail News Home Follow Us Coronavirus Vote 'n' Vent Originals Canada World Business Entertainment Sports Science & Tech Weather Coronavirus updates VOTE: Are you optimistic Canada can lower COVID-19 rates? See the full recap of all the day's events in coronavirus news across the country Reblog Share Tweet Share London Zoo: Business as usual behind closed doors Reuters Videos April 3, 2020 (SOUNDBITE) (English) ZSL LONDON ZOO KEEPER, DAVID WAITE, SPEAKING TO CAMERA AS PART OF THE PRIMATE TEAM AT THE ZOO AS HE SHOWS THE EMPTY SITE AND THE OTHER KEEPERS HE IS WALKING WITH, SAYING (PART OFF-CAMERA): "Hello, my name is David, I'm from the primate team here at ZSL London Zoo, and as you can see, the zoo is completely closed, completely empty because of what's been going on. But that doesn't mean we stop here at the zoo.'' It's business as usual at London Zoo although the doors are closed to the public Zoo keepers gave us a glimpse of their work with animals from training Hanuman langurs (AUDIO OF BELL BEING RUN) HANUMAN LANGURS RUNNING TOWARDS THE FENCE AND EATING THE NUT TREATS to feeding monkeys (SOUNDBITE) (English) ZSL LONDON ZOO KEEPER, NICK, ONE OF THE PRIMATE TEAM OF KEEPERS WHO IS FILMING OTHER THE KEEPERS THROWING FOOD AROUND THE SQUIRREL MONKEY ENCLOSURE FOR THE MONKEYS AND THE MONKEYS CLIMBING AND RUNNING AROUND, SAYING (OFF-CAMERA):"We now need to really up the game when it comes to enrichment just to make sure they are stimulated and occupied and being busy all day." entertaining the serval (SOUNDBITE) (English) ZSL LONDON ZOO KEEPER, JESSICA COURTNEY-JONES, FILMING A KEEPER BRINGING A SERVAL (A WILD CAT) TOWARDS CAMERA AND FEEDING HER, SAYING (OFF-CAMERA):"She is, of course, a beautiful serval. Now servals are found living in Africa and they are ferocious predators out in the wild and they actually have one of the cleanest kills out of the animal kingdom.'' and walking kunekune pigs (SOUNDBITE) (English) ZSL LONDON ZOO KEEPER, JESSICA COURTNEY-JONES, FILMING KEEPERS TAKING TWO KUNEKUNE PIGS FOR A WALK AROUND THE ZOO, SAYING (OFF-CAMERA): "Bye ladies." Reblog Share Tweet Share News Reuters U.S. coronavirus supply spree sparks outrage among allies From Europe to South America, U.S. allies are complaining about the superpower's "Wild West" tactics in outbidding or blocking shipments to buyers who have already signed deals for vital medical supplies. In France and Germany, senior officials said the United States was paying far above the market price for medical-grade masks from No. 1 producer China, on occasion winning contracts through higher bids even after European buyers believed a deal was done, and Brazil's health minister reported a similar incident. 13 News The Canadian Press How doctors in Canada will decide who lives and dies if pandemic worsens When there's only one ventilator but two patients who need it, how should a doctor decide who gets the chance to survive?Medical ethicists across the country are working to help frontline workers answer weighty questions should the COVID-19 pandemic overwhelm hospitals the way it has in northern Italy and New York City."These are not decisions we want to make," said Dr. Timothy Christie, who convenes an ethics committee that gives advice on pandemic response policy in New Brunswick."The planning that people are doing right now, they're doing the best to make it so we don't end up there."On Wednesday, chief public health officer Dr. Theresa Tam warned that Canada's health-care system could be deluged in each of Ottawa's pandemic scenarios. The system is not designed to deal with a surge of COVID-19 cases, which could mean facing difficult decisions about how to allocate sparse resources, she said.Since the novel coronavirus was first confirmed in Canada, officials in several provinces have been developing guides so that doctors don't feel alone in making life and death decisions.British Columbia's ethical framework builds on work started during the H1N1 epidemic and Ebola crisis. It addresses specific ethical questions on everything from distributing personal protective equipment and ventilators to "decision making about who will get scarce treatment if that comes to pass," Dr. Bonnie Henry, the provincial health officer, said last week."No single individual physician or clinician will have to make that decision on their own."In Ontario, officials have announced the formation of an "ethics table" led by the University of Toronto's joint centre for bioethics.Alberta is working on a framework too."The focus will be on ensuring as many patients as possible receive the care they need," Tom McMillan, a spokesman with Alberta Health, said in an email.In New Brunswick, clinicians will be given a principle to help them make decisions based on their expertise.Christie's committee is recommending a fundamental shift in the underlying principle that doctors use to make treatment decisions if there aren't enough hospital beds and ventilators."In cases where resources are limited, we would allocate the resources to people for whom we think will have the best outcome," said Christie, who is also regional director of ethics services for the Horizon Health Network, the province's anglophone health authority."That's fundamentally different than the way we'd do it in normal circumstances."Under normal circumstances, Christie said doctors ask patients what their goals are. A patient with terminal cancer might wish to spend one last Christmas with his family, and treatment plans can be adjusted to help reach that goal.COVID-19 could create a scenario where using a ventilator to keep someone alive for an extra few months comes at the expense of another person's life, he said.The challenge is determining how you define outcomes when comparing patients."There's a lot of debate about how you define the best outcome. Some people would say it's the amount of life you could live," Christie said. In other words, choosing to save the younger of two patients."We reject that approach," Christie said.A 20-year-old and a 55-year-old both have "significant" amounts of life left, so the difference between them is not morally relevant, he said.Age isn't the only factor being debated by the New Brunswick committee as it considers how to avoid discriminating against someone who develops COVID-19 after all ventilators are already in use.Rather than stockpiling ventilators in anticipation of future cases, Christie said they are advising that a new patient be assessed against those already being ventilated. If the new patient has a good chance of surviving, doctors could ethically end the treatment for another patient who isn't responding, he said.But an ethical framework won't help doctors who have to decide between two patients with nearly identical outcomes."In that circumstance you have an arbitrary decision. It's going to be tragic, it's going to be heartbreaking and it's going to be arbitrary — and there's no ethical principle that all of a sudden can make it better," Christie said. "That's no one's fault."This report by The Canadian Press was first published April 3, 2020.Amy Smart, The Canadian Press 225 News CBC Ontario to shut down some construction sectors amid COVID-19 outbreak, premier says Recent developments: * Premier announces province will be shutting down some parts of the construction industry. * Province's top health officials reveal projections suggesting COVID-19 could kill 3,000 to 15,000 people. * Ontario confirmed 462 new cases of COVID-19 on Friday. Provincial total now at 3,255. * Official tally includes 67 deaths. * CBC News has accumulated data from local public health units and counted 81 deaths in the province. * Across the province, 1,023 cases are considered resolved. * A total of 66,753 tests have been administered province-wide and 1,245 people are awaiting test results. * Health official says non-Canadians with no health insurance will be treated. * Pinecrest Nursing Home reporting four more deaths of residents in a COVID-19 outbreak there bringing the total to 20. * Health unit west of Toronto apologizes after mistakenly mailing letters to 16 people telling them that their COVID-19 tests were negative when they were in fact positive. * Minister of Health Christine Elliott announces new online site for the public to access their COVID-19 test results. * Province issues new order under the Emergency Management and Civil Protection Act to give health units more flexibility through hiring retired nurses, medical students and volunteers.Ontario Premier Doug Ford announced that the province will be shutting down some parts of the province's construction industry amid efforts to contain COVID-19. The changes come as the government updates its list of essential businesses and services in response to recommendations from public health officials to further restrict physical interactions between people.Private sector industrial, commercial and institutional projects will be affected, while public sector infrastructure work and some residential construction will be allowed to continue. Projects related to the health-care sector, including any work necessary to ensure the production of critical equipment and medical devices, as well those required to maintain the operations of petrochemical plants and refineries, will be exempted from the shut down.Ford said he'll continue to follow the advice of public health officials to determine whether the list of essential businesses needs to be further refined, but reaffirmed that supply chains for food and other essential items will remain in place, meaning grocery stores and pharmacies, for example, will remain open.Meanwhile, Ontario's retail cannabis outlets have been taken off the essential list and will be forced to close, although people can still order from the province's online store. Meanwhile, the province's top health officials revealed projections that suggest COVID-19 could kill 3,000 to 15,000 people in the province over the course of the pandemic, which could last up to two years. You can read more about that here, or review the province's presentation of that data for yourself at the bottom of this story."I think it's important that we're all robustly realistic about the scale of the challenge we face," Dr. Peter Donnelly, who heads Public Health Ontario, said at the news conference on Friday. But those projections also show that Ontario's actions so far to slow the spread of COVID-19 have prevented thousands of deaths and hundreds of thousands of cases, and that stricter action today would save hundreds more lives.Just two days ago Premier Doug Ford resisted calls to release the projections. Now, he says the move could also serve as a "wake-up call" to some Ontarians who aren't taking physical distancing measures seriously."These numbers are stark and sobering," Ford said at a news conference following the release of the projections on Friday. 'The numbers are real,' Williams saysOntario's chief medical officer of health Dr. David Williams says he hopes the numbers will push people to continue observing the guidelines from the health authorities."The numbers are real, the numbers are challenging, they may for some people be a bit scary," Williams said at an afternoon news conference. "I think the need is to turn that apprehension into determination to do what we need to do, because we told you what you need to do. You can do it. We have made an impact. "You have made an impact and as the premier said, we know that the people of Ontario are up to the task of doing that and we ask you to focus hard on that for the next two-week period," Williams added.Non-Canadians with no health insurance will be treatedMeanwhile, Williams said non-Canadians with no insurance coverage should not hesitate to visit an assessment centre if they believe they are infected."We have tried to make it as easy as possible ... to advise and help them in their health condition and to confirm for them very quickly if they have a positive level or not," Williams said. "They often are with fellow international individuals, whether in a classroom setting or other ones, so they would not only want to protect themselves but those around them and to be advised accordingly."While noting that he's not aware of people failing to come forward, Williams emphasized that there are close to 100 assessment centres and they're more than willing to see those in need of testing. "You don't have to have the coverage or the citizenship. We want to identify you if you think you're at risk. We want to see you and we want to help you," Williams added.Provincial total of cases up to 3,255 Ontario confirmed 462 new cases of COVID-19 on Friday, bringing the provincial total to 3,255.The official tally includes 67 deaths, however CBC News has accumulated data from local public health units and counted 97 deaths in the province.Another 1,023 cases are considered resolved — a roughly 30 per cent jump since the last update. Some 1,245 people are awaiting test results, more than 800 fewer than Thursday. A total of 66,753 tests have been administered provincewide.The newest data provides a snapshot of the situation in Ontario as of 4 p.m. ET yesterday.In terms of hospitalizations: * 462 cases of COVID-19 have been hospitalized. * 194 cases are in intensive care units. * 140 cases are on ventilators.The province also offered this breakdown of cases since Jan. 15, 2020: * 48.5 per cent are male, while 50.9 per cent are female. * About 32 per cent of cases are 60 years of age and older. * Greater Toronto Area public health units account for 53 per cent of cases. Meanwhile, a nursing home in central Ontario is reporting four more deaths of residents in a COVID-19 outbreak there, bringing the total to 20.The local health unit believes the outbreak at Pinecrest Nursing Home in Bobcaygeon is the largest in the province, with at least 24 staff members also infected.False test results in PeelMeanwhile, a regional health unit west of Toronto has apologized after it mistakenly mailed letters to 16 people telling them that their COVID-19 tests were negative when they were in fact positive.Dr. Lawrence Loh, interim medical officer of health in Peel, said in a statement that the letters were mailed on Tuesday and Wednesday. His unit was made aware of the errors late Thursday, he added."I know the relief those residents felt for a few moments has sadly been transformed into feelings of fear and uncertainty. Our team is working quickly to notify these residents and make sure they have what they need to manage this difficult situation," Loh said.An investigation revealed that several positive test slips were mixed with a batch of negative results received from labs, according to Loh. Peel's health unit has changed its process to avoid repeating the mistakes again."On behalf of the Region of Peel, I extend apologies to those residents impacted by this error," Loh said.Online portal for test resultsMinister of Health Christine Elliott announced a new online site for the public to access their COVID-19 test results.The hope is that it will ease the burden on local public health units "so that they can better focus on containing COVID-19," Elliott said in a news release.Further, the province also issued a new order under the Emergency Management and Civil Protection Act to give health units more flexibility through hiring retired nurses, medical students and volunteers.The order comes after Ontario's top medical official recommended more aggressive contact tracing to track community spread of the coronavirus.You can read the full Ontario government model below: 30 News CBC Canadian passengers on virus-stricken Coral Princess cruise ship worry how they'll get home Canadian passengers on the Coral Princess cruise ship nearing Fort Lauderdale, Fla., worry how they'll get home after at least a dozen COVID-19 cases have been diagnosed on board.Their fears are stoked by the recent experience of the MS Zaandam, a Holland America Line cruise ship that struggled to secure permission to dock in Fort Lauderdale because it, too, had a COVID-19 outbreak on board.There are 1,020 passengers — including 97 Canadians — and 878 crew members on board the Coral Princess.Passenger Frank Béchamp, of Nepean, Ont., said the ship announced the virus outbreak on Wednesday night."Our hearts sunk in momentary despair," said Béchamp, 71, in an interview conducted by phone and email. "All aboard pray that the U.S.A. authorities permit us to dock and provide us passage to the airport so that we may continue our journey home."The Coral Princess set sail on March 5 on a South American cruise — at a time when there were very few cases of COVID-19 in South America. It was set to dock in Fort Lauderdale on April 4, though it now appears those plans are on hold. On Thursday, Princess Cruises said in a statement that out of 13 passengers and crew tested for COVID-19 on board, 12 were positive for the illness. Passengers are confined to their cabins and have been given face masks. Regarding docking in Fort Lauderdale, the cruise line said that it "continues to seek approvals through multiple diplomatic channels" and work with local officials in the region. Port Everglades — the Fort Lauderdale port where the Coral Princess is scheduled to dock on Saturday — told CBC News that the ship no longer plans to arrive on that day. It said it had no further information at this time."Everyone's a bit on edge," said passenger Gary Lyon, 62, of Toronto, who has been communicating with fellow Canadians on board by email. "We're very eager to get home."'Let us off'The Coral Princess cut its cruise short in mid-March amid the growing COVID-19 pandemic. But the ship struggled to find a port to let passengers disembark and return home after nearby countries, such as Argentina and Brazil, shut their borders to foreigners.Many passengers — including some Canadians — were able to disembark on March 19 in Buenos Aires to catch a flight home. But other passengers who had a flight departing the following day stayed on the ship — and then were stuck there after Argentina decided to close its borders to foreigners at midnight."Complete disappointment, I mean, we were all packed," said Lyon, who, along with Béchamp, missed his March 20 flight home. After a series of rejections, the Coral Princess set its course for Fort Lauderdale. But the virus-stricken Zaandam, which was also scheduled to dock there, faced opposition because the region is already battling its own COVID-19 epidemic.After much debate and grumbling from local politicians, the Zaandam and its sister ship, the Rotterdam were finally granted permission to dock on Thursday. Lyon said he hopes that means local officials will also let in the Coral Princess. "Let us off and put us on the fastest bus possible to the airport," said Lyon, adding that Princess Cruises said it would book flights home for passengers. Béchamp said he hopes the Canadian government will assist in getting Canadian passengers home. "We pray that our government is exploring every possible avenue with the U.S.A. port authorities to get us back to Canada." Global Affairs Canada told CBC News that it is speaking with various U.S. officials, along with other partner countries, to determine a final docking location for the Coral Princess.According to GAC, there are currently 145 Canadians still at sea on a total of seven cruise ships.Carnival Corp. respondsBoth Princess Cruises and Holland America are owned by Carnival Corporation.Since the COVID-19 pandemic began, Holland America's Zaandam and four Princess cruise ships — the Diamond Princess, the Grand Princess, the Ruby Princess and the Coral Princess — have had coronavirus outbreaks.Only the Coral Princess is still at sea. As a result of those outbreaks, at least 13 people have died and more than 900 passengers have contracted COVID-19.Cruise lines suspended their operations in mid-March as the global pandemic spread, but some ships that were still at sea were unable to find an immediate place to dock.Carnival Corp. told CBC News that in comparison to the number of COVID-19 cases on land — which now totals one million — the spread of the virus on cruise ships pales in comparison."Any case is unfortunate," spokesperson Roger Frizzell said in an email. "But while there have been a few very high-profile instances of guests on cruise ships testing positive, in reality, these situations have been at a far lower rate by comparison than the rate of spread of COVID-19 throughout communities around the world."Cruise ships have strict cleansing and sanitation protocols, he said, and adopted enhanced screenings during the COVID-19 outbreak. Fizzell said that Carnival Corp. is working with health authorities on additional health and safety measures to further protect passengers on cruises. 36 News The Canadian Press Ontario returns to table with last teachers' union as backdrop for talks changes TORONTO — The Ontario government is attempting to close an ugly round of bargaining as it restarts talks with the only remaining teachers' union without a contract, and an expert says the COVID-19 pandemic may create a path to labour peace.University of Toronto professor and former deputy education minister Charles Pascal says the unprecedented crisis, and the dramatic response that has altered daily life, have also changed the tone coming from the government.Pascal said Premier Doug Ford's government has abandoned the inflammatory rhetoric and divisive public bargaining it had engaged in with the province's teachers' unions since last summer, focusing instead on calm, clear pandemic response.That new approach appears to have had an effect on the once-turbulent talks that led to near-daily walkouts and strikes, closing schools just weeks ago."It takes the pressure off so that people can sit at the table, quietly, while attention is being paid elsewhere," he said. "All of a sudden the government wants to appear genuine about being fair in every direction."In recent weeks, the province has secured tentative agreements with three of four teachers' unions that had been without contracts since August.On Thursday, the government returned to the bargaining table with the Ontario Secondary School Teachers' Federation, which is the last union without a deal.But with schools now shuttered until at least May because of the pandemic, and the government and teachers working together to help students learn from home, Pascal said the tension built up between all parties appears to have diminished."There's a kind of fairness that's arisen on the scene that's led to deals with the other federations," he said. "That's a good thing."Education Minister Stephen Lecce said Thursday the government is ready to work with the OSSTF to reach an agreement."The time is now to drive deals with all remaining union partners," Lecce said in a statement. "We will remain a positive and driving force at the bargaining table, advancing the priorities of parents and students."OSSTF president Harvey Bischof said the union, which has been engaged in only informal discussions with the government since December, is also ready to get back to the bargaining table.He acknowledged that the pandemic has affected talks, even on a logistical level, with all future bargaining taking place via teleconference."Negotiations never happen in a vacuum, they happen in an environment," Bischof said. "The environment has an effect on bargaining. What exactly that will be isn't something I'm prepared to pre-judge."Bischof said he's not concerned that the public support he felt the teachers had built over the past few months has disappeared."I'm not worried," he said. "I'm cognizant of the reality within which we find ourselves. I have to tell you, it's the reality in which my members are ... doing their very best to provide continuity of learning for students, have reached out to students and are worried for them and their well-being."In recent weeks, the province has reached agreements with the Elementary Teachers' Federation of Ontario, the Ontario English Catholic Teachers' Association and the Association des enseignantes et des enseignants franco-ontariens.This report by The Canadian Press was first published April 3, 2020.Shawn Jeffords, The Canadian Press 40 News The Canadian Press Cruise passengers to land soon and 'Jesus Christ Superstar' streamable; In The News for April 3 In The News is a roundup of stories from The Canadian Press designed to kickstart your day. Here is what's on the radar of our editors for the morning of April 3 ...COVID-19 in Canada ...Canadians should brace for some grim numbers today as Ontario reveals its projections for how bad the COVID-19 pandemic could get in the country's most populous province and how long it could last.Premier Doug Ford's decision to let Ontarians in on the "stark" best and worst-case scenarios will put pressure on the federal government to provide a national picture of the potential progression of the deadly virus, which by Thursday had already infected more than 11,000 Canadians and resulted in almost 200 deaths.Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has said that such national modelling is coming "soon" but requires more data from provincial and territorial governments — a subject he discussed with premiers during a more than two-hour first ministers' conference call Thursday evening.Federal officials are hoping the national projections will be available within the next five days.Three weeks ago, Health Minister Patty Hajdu estimated that 30 to 70 per cent of Canadians could become infected — somewhere between 11 million and 26 million people.In an interview late Thursday with The Canadian Press, Hajdu said that estimate hasn't changed.\---Also this ...Passengers stranded aboard two COVID-19-stricken cruise ships said they're finally hopeful their ordeal is nearing its end as Prime Minister Justin Trudeau pledged Thursday to ensure the Canadians would stay in isolation upon their return.Trudeau said a chartered plane would carry asymptomatic Canadian passengers aboard the MS Zaandam and the MS Rotterdam home in the coming days, though he didn't provide an exact timeline.But Catherine McLeod of Ottawa, who was on the Zaandam with her husband before they were transferred to the Rotterdam, said she was preparing to come home, even before American officials gave the ships the go-ahead to dock in Florida on Thursday afternoon."It's kind of a done deal we're getting off this pleasure cruise," McLeod said in a phone interview from her cabin. "So we're very, very hopeful. I will feel 100 per cent better once the plane lifts off the runway. It's going to be one hell of a Hallelujah hoot going up then."She said she and her husband were waiting for a medical check-up to make sure they remained asymptomatic before getting their "disembarkation" papers."I think what they're trying to do is get our fannies on a bus and outta here ASAP," McLeod said.\---COVID-19 in the U.S. ...The Trump administration is formalizing new guidance to recommend that many Americans wear face coverings in an effort to slow the spread of the new coronavirus, as the president is aggressively defending his response to the public health crisis.The recommendations, still being finalized Thursday, were expected to apply to those who live in areas hard-hit by community transmission of the virus that causes COVID-19. A person familiar with the White House coronavirus task force's discussion said officials would suggest that non-medical masks, T-shirts or bandannas be used to cover the nose and mouth when outside the home — for instance, at the grocery store or pharmacy. Medical-grade masks, particularly short-in-supply N95 masks, would be reserved for those dealing directly with the sick.The person spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss the proposed guidance before its public release.President Donald Trump, who was tested again for coronavirus Thursday using a new rapid test, indicated he would support such a recommendation. "If people wanted to wear them, they can," he said."It's not a bad idea, at least for a period of time," Trump had said earlier in the week.The White House said Trump's latest test returned a negative result in 15 minutes, and said Trump was "healthy and without symptoms."\---COVID-19 around the world ...Both the Islamic State group and al-Qaida see the coronavirus as a threat, but some of their fighters also see the upheaval from the pandemic as an opportunity to win over more supporters and strike harder than before.Messages from the Islamic extremist groups show concern about the virus mixed with bravado, asserting that it is punishment for non-Muslims while also urging followers to repent and take care of themselves.Al-Qaida suggested in a statement Tuesday that non-Muslims use their time in quarantine to learn about Islam. But in a sharp commentary in its al-Naba newsletter in mid-March, IS urged followers to show no mercy and launch attacks in this time of crisis.In a commentary Tuesday, the International Crisis Group warned that the pandemic threatens the global solidarity that is key to fighting extremists, "allowing the jihadists to better prepare spectacular terror attacks."Though analysts said it was too soon to say which attacks can be blamed on militants exploiting the coronavirus, Islamic extremists in late March carried out their deadliest assault yet against the military of Chad, a significant contributor to Africa's growing counterterrorism efforts, killing at least 92 soldiers near the border with Nigeria and Niger.\---COVID-19 in sportsThe Seattle Metropolitans were 20 minutes from a second Stanley Cup title in the spring of 1919, 20 minutes from adding their names to the trophy again.Odie Cleghorn's goal for the Montreal Canadiens early in the third period of Game 5 sparked a rally that ensured there would be no celebration that day — or ever. The 1919 series took a grim turn from there.Instead of ending with a title for Seattle, or with an epic comeback by Montreal, the series became known for being cancelled during the Spanish flu pandemic that sickened several players and eventually took the life of Montreal's Joe Hall.Some are drawing parallels to what's happening today with the COVID-19 pandemic and the uncertain future for the NHL's current season."(A few) weeks ago, I didn't think that would ever happen again. It was just such a quirky little footnote in history, and it was a funny little story, and 'I can't believe this happened,'" said author Kevin Ticen, who has chronicled the Metropolitans, including in a book, "When It Mattered Most," about the 1917 season."Now we're sitting here and history has repeated itself. I mean, to me it's exactly the same."The abandoned 1919 finals were just one of two instances since 1893 where the championship trophy was not awarded.The only other time no champion was crowned was when the 2005 lockout wiped out the entire NHL season.\---COVID-19 in entertainmentIconic composer Andrew Lloyd Webber is making some of his filmed musicals available for free on YouTube nostalgic theatre goers wanting to be entertained while stuck at home.On Friday, the 2000 West End adaptation of "Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat" starring Donny Osmond will be streamable.That will be followed a week later by the rock classic "Jesus Christ Superstar" from the 2012 arena show starring Tim Minchin.Further shows will be announced later, all hosted by the YouTube channel The Show Must Go On.Each show will be available at 2 p.m. Eastern/11 a.m. Pacific for a 48-hour period online, with no charge or sign up required.\---This report by The Canadian Press was first published April 3, 2020.The Canadian Press News CBC Confirmed case of COVID-19 at Calgary women's shelter A case of COVID-19 has been confirmed at the YW Sheriff King shelter for women and their children, representatives said Thursday.An employee at the facility developed symptoms and tested positive for COVID-19 on March 21 and has been in self-isolation since the symptoms began, said Delia Popa, a spokesperson for YW."Keeping our employees and clients safe is our top priority. We are an essential service because the 200 women and children we serve in our shelters and housing facilities have nowhere else to go," Popa said in an email. Alberta Health Services reached out to everyone who came in contact with the employee, Popa said, and those individuals have been in self-isolation since March 21.During Thursday's daily news conference, Dr. Deena Hinshaw, the province's chief medical officer of health, confirmed the case, saying the safety of these facilities is a "serious issue.""It's one that is being faced across Canada," she said. "I know that residents and their families are concerned, and I want to stress that I hear their concerns."Please know that we are doing everything possible to protect them from COVID-19."Remaining a safe spaceKim Ruse, CEO of the Calgary Women's Emergency Shelter, said that given the scope of the pandemic, it was only a matter of time before a case showed up in such a setting."I'm not surprised, because communal living situations are particularly at risk," Ruse said. "However, I also know that all the shelters in the city are following the protocols as laid out by Alberta Health Services and doing their very best to keep the environment very safe."Despite concern surrounding communal living facilities, Ruse said shelters were working hard to provide clean and safe conditions so they could continue to serve the community."There's a recognition that in times like these, family violence does increase. So we need to be able to be a safe space for women to be able to go to," Ruse said. 1 News CBC What you need to know about COVID-19 in Ottawa on Friday, April 3 Recent developments:Here's what's happening todayNew projections from Ontario show COVID-19 could kill between 3,000 and 15,000 people and could affect the province for up to two years. Premier Doug Ford called the projections "a wake-up call" on Thursday.The federal government has yet to release its natonwide projections.WATCH: What if Ontario did nothing against COVID-19?Ottawa bylaw officers say after issuing dozens of warnings, they will start to fine people for breaking COVID-19 rules.Other communities such as Kingston, Ont. and Gatineau are in a similar boat.How many cases do we have?There are now 289 confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Ottawa and more than 500 in the region, including seven deaths linked to the coronavirus. Confirmed cases are just a snapshot because of the limits of testing. There are likely thousands more.Distancing and isolatingPhysical distancing means avoiding non-essential trips, working from home, cancelling all gatherings and staying at least two metres away from others when out for a walk.WATCH: What good physical distancing will do to the pandemicTravellers who return to Canada must now self-isolate for 14-days: staying home and asking others to leave supplies at the door.Anyone who is older than 70, or who has a compromised immune system, or who has been in close contact with someone who either has tested positive or has symptoms after recent travel should also self-isolate for 14 days.People who feel sick should self-isolate for 14 days or until their symptoms are gone for 24 hours, whichever is longer.How daily life is changingQuebec has banned non-essential travel into and through western Quebec, which police are enforcing with moving checkpoints.WATCH: Gatineau police explain what's not allowedParks are only open to walk through and authorities are watching for gatherings in many communities.WATCH: A how-to guide for Ottawa's park rulesOntario and Quebec schools are closed until May and all non-essential businesses should be closed. Public transit authorities are scaling back service. Essential services like waste collection continue. What are the symptoms of COVID-19?They range from a cold-like illness to a severe lung infection. The most common symptoms include fever, fatigue and a dry cough.Older people, those with compromised immune systems and those with underlying medical problems such as high blood pressure, heart problems or diabetes are more likely to develop serious problems.The coronavirus primarily spreads through droplets when an infected person coughs or sneezes.Ottawa Public Health says unless you need an N-95 mask for your job, only people with respiratory illnesses and those caring for sick people should wear them.Homemade masks may do little to stop the spread of the virus — aside from stopping people from touching their faces and muffling a cough or sneeze. Kingston General Hospital has banned staff from wearing them.WATCH: Is the advice on face masks changing?The germs can also spread through close, prolonged contact, such as handshaking, and via surfaces such as door handles, phones and light switches.Most people with mild symptoms can self-isolate and get better. If you have severe symptoms, call 911.Where to get testedAnyone concerned they have COVID-19 in Ontario can fill out its online assessment tool. Ottawans who have a new or worsening cough or fever and have left the country — or have spent time with someone diagnosed with COVID-19 in the past 14 days — should visit the COVID-19 screening centre at the Brewer Arena.The centre is open from 9 a.m. to 8 p.m. at 151 Brewer Way. You don't have to call ahead.Starting Monday a former school in Bells Corners will become a care centre for people with moderate symptoms from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m.The assessment centre at the Kingston Memorial Centre at 303 York St. is open 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. for anyone with symptoms.WATCH: Kingston teacher sets public health advice to Lady Gaga tune The public health unit in the Belleville area is asking people only call it at 613-966-5500 if they still have questions after the province's self-assessment.Same for Leeds, Grenville and Lanark's unit at 1-800-660-5853 extension 2499.It has testing sites by referral from a family doctor or the health unit only in Brockville, Almonte and Smiths Falls and a new home test service for people in care or with mobility challenges. Call the health unit to ask about one.There is a drive-thru test centre in Casselman, Ont. open 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. at 872 Principale St. for people with worsening symptoms, like the test site at 750 Laurier St. in Hawkesbury, Ont., open from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. weekdays. No need to call ahead.WATCH: Firefighters, police show support for health-care workers in HawkesburyThere are others by appointment only in WInchester, Ont., by calling your family doctor or Telehealth at 1-866-797-0000, and Cornwall, Ont. Call 613-935-7762 if you have worsening symptoms.Only people older than age 70 in that area or who have chronic health problems or compromised immune systems can call 613-933-1375 from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. to ask about a home visit from paramedics.Renfrew County is providing home testing under some circumstances.Call Telehealth, your health care provider or it at 613-735-8654 if you still have more questions.Anyone who doesn't have or can't reach a family doctor can call its new primary health-care centre at 1-844-727-6404 if they have any health questions.In western Quebec:Outaouais residents should call 819-644-4545 if they have a cough or fever, whether they've travelled or not. You could be referred to Gatineau's testing centre.If your symptoms require a trip to the ER, call ahead if you can to let them know your travel history.First Nations communitiesAkwesasne, Mohawks of the Bay of Quinte (MBQ) and Pikwakanagan have declared states of emergency..With a confirmed case in the American part of Akwesasne, anyone returning from farther than 80 kilometres away is asked to self-isolate for 14 days.Anyone in MBQ who has symptoms can call 613-967-3603 to talk to a nursePikwakanagan's new council has ordered all businesses to close.Kitigan Zibi has scaled back non-essential services.For more information, visit: 1 News CBC Alberta to face its 'worst contraction' ever, ATB chief economist warns The COVID-19 pandemic and its related economic fallout is poised to change Alberta's economy permanently, says ATB chief economist Todd Hirsch."This pandemic and this economic fallout will permanently reshape our economy," Hirsch said during a webinar hosted Thursday by the Calgary Chamber of Commerce."I've had a hard time in the last couple of weeks being an optimist on this. I do think this is something very serious for our economy … I do expect this to be the worst contraction Alberta has ever seen."Hirsch acknowledged there are many unknowns in the coming months. There are questions surrounding how long physical distancing will last and how long it will take for global oil demand to return.He said Alberta's energy sector is being hit extra hard, and entered the intensifying stages of this pandemic "already in a compromised position."Hirsch said he's "not as convinced" oil demand will be back up by the end of this year, citing concerns with transporting oil."To be honest, I'm not really that optimistic in a quick rebound for this city," he said.As a result, a potential recession could be on par with or as bad as the Great Depression, Hirsch said.His views on the economy echo Premier Jason Kenney's statement last month that Alberta's oil and gas industry is "on life support."Though the global economy could recover from the COVID-19 pandemic this summer, Kenney said Alberta's finances could suffer if an oil price war between Russia and Saudi Arabia drags on.Potential opportunitiesWhile Hirsch acknowledged the present moment's downsides, he pointed out potential innovation and positive change during the pandemic.He said the downturn could encourage a higher value being placed on information and communication technology or a growing demand for locally-produced food products. Or perhaps the pandemic will help in developing innovative healthcare technology or an increase in innovation around clean technology."To me, success will be that we do take this opportunity to purposefully diversify our economy," Hirsch said."This does not mean that we abandon or move away from our hydrocarbon economy … that will remain a backbone, but that backbone is not in good shape at the moment." 4 CBC How to handle cash during the COVID-19 pandemic With recent efforts to limit the spread of germs and reduce contact, a look at how to handle cash during a pandemic. News Reuters China's Hubei province reports four new coronavirus deaths as of April 2 Mainland China reported 31 new confirmed coronavirus cases, including two locally transmitted infections, the country's National Health Commission said on Friday. Mainland China also reported four new deaths as of Thursday, all in Wuhan, the city where the outbreak began, the commission said in a statement. The total number of infections now stands at 81,620 and 3,322 deaths have been reported from mainland China to date. 35 News HuffPost Canada Metis Hunters' Killings Not Racially Motivated, Say Alberta RCMP. Locals Aren't So Sure. Jacob Sansom and Morris Cardinal were hunting on Crown land, which is a protected right. 73 News Reuters Volunteer disinfectant sprayers help Wuhan prepare for a return to work Volunteers in hazmat suits have been spraying Wuhan with disinfectant to help the Chinese city where the coronavirus first took hold get back to work as the number of new cases in China drops. Wuhan, where 11 million people live, had been paralysed by containment efforts imposed by authorities, who shut down public transport as well as taxi services as part of a lockdown, leaving it mostly to ordinary citizens to keep the city running. Zhang Quan is a member of Blue Sky Rescue, China's biggest nonprofit civil rescue organization, which has been involved in helping distribute medical supplies for the epidemic. 1 News The Canadian Press Mayor taps ex-Dallas chief to head Chicago police force Chicago Mayor Lori Lightfoot on Thursday named former Dallas police Chief David Brown to head the police force in the nation's third largest city, touting his humility and calling him “a leader who commands respect.”Lightfoot introduced Brown as the next superintendent of the Chicago Police Department during a news conference, saying he's the right man for the job."We are Chicago and we deserve the best. And in this time, this moment, David Brown is the absolute best."The announcement came hours after Lightfoot announced that a member of the police force had died of COVID-19, the disease caused by the coronavirus. The news conference was tinged with sadness with Lightfoot pointing out that, just as interim Police Superintendent Charlie Beck had to deal with the loss of one of his officers this week, Brown knows the pain of losing a fellow officer.“Death has come directly to David Brown's doorstep,” said the mayor. Brown lost a former partner and other officers under his command, and even his son and a brother to gun violence.Brown, who was one of two African Americans named as a finalist, has more than 30 years of experience in law enforcement. The 59-year-old, who retired from the Dallas force in 2016, drew widespread attention that year after five of his officers were killed in an ambush-style rifle attack and he directed officers to kill the suspect using a remote-controlled robot fixed with explosives.Brown was the only one of the three finalists with experience leading a large police force. Still, it will be an adjustment for him, coming from a department of about 3,500 officers to one with about 13,000.One of the other finalists was Kristen Ziman, the police chief in the Chicago suburb of Aurora. The third was Ernest Cato, a deputy chief on the Chicago police force. Cato, who is also African American, was only recently promoted to deputy chief by Beck.Brown's experience made him the logical choice for Lightfoot. The mayor said one of the things that most impressed her about Brown was that he implemented many reforms in Dallas that the Chicago department is now trying to introduce. But he's also an outsider who is far less familiar than the other two candidates. And he is coming to a police department where the rank-and-file has not always welcomed outsiders. Former superintendents Jody Weis, a former FBI special agent, and Garry McCarthy, a former high ranking member of the New York City Police Department, were not popular with the troops.Brown will also have to adjust to a system of government that gives him less independence. Chicago has a stronger mayor and police oversight body than in Dallas.Adjusting to “those are probably going to be some of his toughest tasks to overcome,” said Dallas Police Association President Mike Mata.During his tenure in Dallas, Brown took steps that were controversial among officers, including making use-of-force data public. But he was also criticized by activists who thought he blocked needed reforms, such as empowering a civilian police review board.Brown said his experience and devotion to his job, along with the officers in his command, would help him as a leader.“My life and career has taken place in the city of Dallas but the call to service ... is one that is heard across the nation, and it is that call that has driven everything that I have done in my career as an officer and as a public servant,” he said.Beck and Eddie Johnson before him scrambled to regain public trust that was shattered in large part by the late-2015 release of a video of a white police officer shooting a black teenager, Laquan McDonald, 16 times. The officer, Jason Van Dyke, was convicted of murder and sent to prison, but the handling of the shooting by the department and City Hall led to the firing of McCarthy, a federal probe and a host of reforms.The department has faced a period of uncertainty since late last year. In December, just days after Johnson announced his retirement and Lightfoot named Beck as the interim superintendent, the mayor abruptly fired Johnson.Lightfoot said Johnson had lied to her about an incident in October in which he was found asleep at the wheel of his vehicle after having drinks. She said Johnson's explanation was fundamentally different than “what the facts show." Johnson had been recorded on surveillance video drinking with a woman who was not his wife at a downtown bar.Beck made it clear from the beginning that he did not want to be the permanent superintendent, and Lightfoot initiated a national search that led to 25 applications for the job. The police board whittled that number down to three.Lightfoot said she hopes the City Council will approve Brown's appointment and that he will be on the job by the end of the month.___AP reporter Jake Bleiberg in Dallas contributed to this story.Don Babwin, The Associated Press 3 News The Canadian Press NYC residents should cover face when in public, mayor says ALBANY, N.Y. — As coronavirus cases soared, New York City Mayor Bill De Blasio asked New Yorkers on Thursday to wear a face covering when they go outside to prevent the spread of the virus. Gov. Andrew Cuomo warned that the state’s supply of breathing machines could be exhausted in six days. And the COVID-19 death toll climbed to at least 2,400. While New York City remained a hotspot, there were troublesome trends around the state as the outbreak spread to every county. Unemployment filings skyrocketed too, as the pandemic wreaked economic havoc.The latest developments in New York:___FACE COVERINGNew York City Mayor Bill De Blasio asked New Yorkers to wear a face covering when they go outside and will be near other people.He cited research showing asymptomatic people could be spreading the virus without realizing it.“When you put on that face covering, you’re protecting everyone else,” he said.The mayor said it could be a scarf or a bandanna or anything homemade, but it should not be a surgical mask needed by medical workers.A recent study by researchers in Singapore became the latest to estimate that somewhere around 10% of new infections may be sparked by people who carry the virus but have not yet suffered symptoms.A bandanna might not prevent someone from coming into contact with the virus, but it could help a person who has it not give it to others when the sneeze, cough or breathe.The mayor of Los Angeles also told everyone in the city to start wearing masks on Wednesday.____VENTILATORS RUNNING LOWCuomo warned New York could be six days away from exhausting its supply of ventilators as the state reported 432 deaths in the past 24 hours, bringing the death toll to nearly 2,400.More than 13,300 people were hospitalized statewide with about 3,400 in intensive care.Ventilators have become the crucial piece of equipment sought by state and city officials as hundreds of patients a day are admitted to intensive care units.The state sent 400 ventilators to New York City and another 200 to its suburbs. But the governor saw problems ahead.“At the current burn rate, we have about six days of ventilators in our stockpile,” the governor said at a briefing at the Capitol.If supplies run short, the state is ready to use anesthesia and converted BiPAP machines, usually used to treat sleep apnea, or put more than one patient on a single ventilator.More than 92,000 state residents have tested positive for the coronavirus. The true number is likely much higher because officials have rationed tests and encouraged all but the most seriously ill people not to seek treatment and instead ride it out at home.Most people who get the virus experience mild or moderate symptoms, including fever and cough. Others, though, develop pneumonia, sometimes requiring hospitalization. The risk of death is greater for older adults and people with other health problems.___UNEMPLOYMENT CLAIMSMore than 464,000 people have filed for unemployment in New York state in the three weeks since the pandemic shattered the economy, an increase of over 1,000% from the same period last year, according to the state Department of Labor.Last week alone, more than 369,000 unemployment claims were filed, an increase of more than 2,600% from the same time last year.The Department of Labor’s unemployment filing system has seen a 16,000% increase in phone calls and a nearly 900% increase in web traffic in recent weeks.___OUTBREAK SPREADSCases have now been confirmed in every county, with worrisome trends in some regions.Cuomo said Thursday that there’s a “troubling rise” in suburban Long Island and Westchester County.At the other end of the state, Buffalo and surrounding Erie County reporting 19 deaths and about 730 cases as of Thursday.Among those infected in Buffalo is Common Council President Darius Pridgen, along with three of his adult children. His daughter was taken off a ventilator late Wednesday and began breathing on her own just before Pridgen went live on Facebook to offer an update from his own quarantine, frequently coughing and his voice hoarse.“It was pretty rough for a couple of days,” he said of his daughter.Erie County Executive Mark Poloncarz said the Buffalo Niagara Convention Center could be used as an intensive-care hospital if needed during the projected peak in late April or early May.___TEACHER DIESSandra Santos-Vizcaino, who taught third grade at an elementary school in Brooklyn, is the first New York City school teacher reported to have died of COVID-19.“This is a devastating tragedy,” schools Chancellor Richard Carranza said Thursday. “Sandra was a beloved teacher at P.S. 9.”Santos-Vizcaino, 54, was a more than 20-year veteran of the city’s school system. She was recognized for her contributions to education in the Dominican Republic and won a grant to study bird sanctuaries there in 2009.“The notion that we’ve lost a teacher is very painful,” Mayor Bill de Blasio said. “We lost a principal last week, a young woman full of extraordinary promise.”Brooklyn principal Dez-Ann Romain was the first city education employee reported to have died of the virus.Students in New York City haven't been to school since March 13.___PRISON MASKSAdministrators of the state prison system said they will allow guards to wear masks on duty. Staff had been prohibited from wearing masks unless medically necessary.Also, inmates subject to quarantine will be issued a surgical-type mask to further reduce the risk of any secondary transmission, officials said.The state corrections department said Thursday that 176 employees and 24 inmates have had confirmed cases of COVID-19.That includes Harvey Weinstein, the film producer serving 23 years for rape and sexual assault.___OTHER DEVELOPMENTSThe virus hasn't spared any part of New York City, but new data shows that a few poorer neighbourhoods in Queens, the Bronx and Brooklyn are getting hit especially hard.Cuomo’s press briefing included a live video appearance by his younger brother, CNN anchor Chris Cuomo, who has tested positive for coronavirus.New York state is racing to roughly triple its hospital capacity as coronavirus cases surge. Officials worry the massive effort won't be enough in the U.S. epicenter of the pandemic.___Associated Press writers Carolyn Thompson in Buffalo and Mary Esch in Albany contributed to this report.Marina Villeneuve And Michael Hill, The Associated Press 2 News CBC COVID-19 on P.E.I.: What's happening Friday, April 3 Four of P.E.I.'s 22 confirmed cases of COVID-19 are considered recovered, P.E.I. chief public health officer Dr. Heather Morrison announced at an afternoon briefing Friday.She also said P.E.I. is working to double the local testing capabilities on the Island every three to seven days going forward.P.E.I. Premier Dennis King noted at a 4:30 p.m. briefing Friday that COVID-19 has not only affected the health of Islanders but has also caused economic damage.Finance Minster Darlene Compton announced a $15 million increase to the emergency contingency fund bringing the total funding to $40 million in anticipation of the increasing needs of Islanders financially affected by COVID-19.Compton also outlined additional financial measures to help Islanders with property tax relief, including the option to defer property tax payment. Property owners will now have the option of deferring all property taxes owing until Dec. 31, 2020.Dwindling demand for frozen potato products has prompted Cavendish Farms to tell farmers to look elsewhere to sell their potatoes.The closing of restaurant dining rooms during the COVID-19 pandemic is being blamed for the drop in consumption.Taxi companies on P.E.I. are also seeing a drop in demand. Some companies report most drivers have decided to stop working.Government also announced in a release that at the request of the Retail Council of Canada, it is allowing retailers to distribute single-use paper bags free of charge to customers if they so choose citing health concerns as the reason.In a briefing from the province Thursday, Minister of transportation, Infrastructure and Energy Steven Myers announced a $1 million fund that will be available to individuals, businesses and non-profit organizations for do not qualify for any other previously announced provincial or federal support program.Recent storiesFinancial relief * IRAC has suspended rental hearings indefinitely in response to the pandemic. * The Charlottetown water and sewer utility is offering options for flexible payments to people suffering financial difficulties during COVID-19. * Small businesses affected are eligible for loans of up to $100,000. * The province's largest landlord, the P.E.I. Housing Corporation, suspended evictions for six weeks as of March 17. Health * Health PEI is rescheduling non-essential appointments, and said those affected will be contacted directly.EducationTravel * Any Islanders who have travelled out of province — whether experiencing symptoms or not — are required to self-isolate for 14 days following their return. This applies to people who have travelled internationally since March 8, and anyone who travelled to another province since March 21.COVID-19: What you need to knowWhat are the symptoms of COVID-19?Common symptoms include: * Fever. * Cough. * Tiredness.But more serious symptoms can develop, including difficulty breathing and pneumonia, which can lead to death.Health Canada has built a self-assessment tool.What should I do if I feel sick?Isolate yourself and call 811. Do not visit an emergency room or urgent care centre to get tested. A health professional at 811 will give you advice and instructions.How can I protect myself? * Wash your hands frequently and thoroughly. * Avoid touching your eyes, nose and mouth. * Clean regularly touched surfaces regularly.More detailed information on the outbreak is available on the federal government's website.More COVID-19 stories from CBC P.E.I. 1 News CBC Couple fears for future after BDC won't defer interest payments amid pandemic A Cape Breton couple fears for their future after the Business Development Bank of Canada refused to defer interest payments on their small business loan.Grant Haverstock and his partner, Jessica KleinHerenbrink, put everything they have on the line in order to open Iron Mountain Wilderness Cabins in Whycocomagh, N.S., last fall.They contacted BDC a few weeks ago to give warning that the business had to close due to COVID-19."We asked them to please defer our principal and interest payments until this thing cleared up, as we have no income whatsoever right now, and frankly we're a little panicked," said Haverstock.BDC agreed to defer the payments on the principal, but not the interest payments, which amount to almost $1,800, said Haverstock."So our payments come out on the first of the month.…I checked the bank and sure enough they bounced our interest payment."ACOA has deferred all paymentsHaverstock said he can't understand why a Crown corporation continues to charge and collect interest from businesses that are closed due to the virus at a time when the federal government is pledging billions in relief to help small businesses,"BDC has basically told us to go pound sand," he said. "And they also told us that they were taking note of our social media posts."The couple also received financing for the business through the Atlantic Canada Opportunities Agency. ACOA has deferred their payments for six months.In a written statement, BDC said the principal payment represents the majority of monthly payments made by its clients, and that's why it has implemented principal postponements for some clients as part of its relief measures."We understand that for certain clients who may be in a difficult financial situation, more flexibility could be required," said BDC spokesperson Jean Philippe Nadeau."Our teams assess each client's needs on a case-by-case basis and try to provide the best support they can, taking into consideration the business history and financial health prior to the COVID-19 pandemic."The Canadian Federation of Independent Businesses has not received any similar complaints about BDC to date, said Louis-Philippe Gauthier, provincial affairs director for CFIB in New Brunswick and PEI.But he said some businesses have reported difficulty in getting through to BDC representatives.He said CFIB would raise the issue with government.In the meantime, he suggested Haverstock explore the provincial and federal business loan programs now on offer as part of the pandemic response.Concerned about credit ratingBut Haverstock is reluctant to take on additional debt."We can't pay the debt we have now," he said. "And now that they've bounced a payment, I'm sure that's going to show up on our credit report. So we probably won't even qualify for that."Despite several attempts to contact BDC by email, Haverstock hasn't had any reply since March 24."I just don't know how in the heck we're going to get out of this," he said. "It's a little scary right now."MORE TOP STORIES 4 News CBC Poor supply of COVID-19 test kits restrained testing, but province still running out New Brunswick Premier Blaine Higgs says New Brunswick may be just days away from running out of supplies to test for the COVID-19 virus, even though the province's test rate is among the lowest in the country."If we ramped up a bit we could be within like a week of running out of test supplies," Higgs told CBC's Power and Politics on Thursday. New Brunswick has been plagued by a shortage of testing supplies since the beginning of the pandemic and has struggled to match the hunt for the virus underway in other provinces As of Thursday, the province had completed just 4,520 COVID-19 tests. That's well below the national average per capita — and more than 3,000 tests behind neighbouring Nova Scotia that this week was testing two people for every one New Brunswick was managing.Higgs said New Brunwick intends to increase its efforts to find more cases of the virus but will be out of supplies quickly if it pushes too hard. "We are doing about 500 or 600 tests a day," he said. "We were going to ramp that up a bit but I'm looking in some cases we could have testing requirements where if we ramped it up we could be within like a week of running out of test supplies."Depleted stockpilesNew Brunswick has been challenged by a lack of testing supplies since the early days of the outbreak when it was caught flat-footed with depleted stockpiles of gear.A memo sent to all New Brunswick doctors March 10, the day before Atlantic Canada's first case was diagnosed in the Moncton area, shows alarm by then-acting chief medical health officer Dr. Cristin Muecke about the province's capacity to handle extensive testing.She instructed doctors not to test for COVID-19 without consulting one of the province's regional medical health officers and a medical microbiologist first to try and preserve scant supplies."The COVID-19 outbreak has profoundly affected the kits manufacturers and existing stocks," wrote Muecke. "The New Brunswick Diagnostic Virology Reference Center has stockpiled kits, but their current stock is progressively depleted without sufficient restocking to replenish it. In order to preserve the current stock, we ask for your cooperation as NB hospitals will not be supplied with the usual number of kits."The requirement to consult a regional medical officer of health before ordering a COVID-19 test remained in New Brunswick until March 16, but even after it was dropped doctors were reminded again that test kits for the virus in the province were in short supply and they should be selective in who they tested."It is expected that a very large number of diagnostic tests will be ordered in the coming days to weeks," wrote Muecke on March 16."Laboratory capacity and supplies are limited provincially and nationally … We need to be careful to choose wisely to maintain the integrity of our diagnostic system."Those restrictions left New Brunswick well behind other smaller provinces that were up and running with extensive testing programs that weekBy March 18, while New Brunswick had only completed only 381 COVID-19 test results, Nova Scotia already had 1,150 done and Saskatchewan 2,366.Where were supplies?It is unclear why other small provinces had more supplies to work with from the beginning, but New Brunswick associate deputy minister of health Rene Boudreau said this week the province restricted the amount of testing it did in mid-March out of necessity."We could have run 500 tests a day from the start and ran out of swabs halfway through and now we couldn't test anyone," said Boudreau about New Brunswick's slow start.New Brunswick has been behind other provinces in testing ever since.This week Nova Scotia, which has just 25 per cent more people than New Brunswick has conducted nearly 1,000 tests per day with New Brunswick performing 1,000 every two days. Higgs did not openly accuse other provinces of snapping up or hiding supplies to New Brunswick's peril, but said he wants to see the federal government acquire and distribute COVID-19 tests to achieve a distribution fairer than New Brunswick has had to date."I think the point is that the federal government has to be that sole sourcer for us and then providing supply to us throughout the country," said Higgs. "We don't need to be hoarding in our own province. That doesn't help our neighbours and our friends. We need to make sure we have enough supplies for our citizens and do that equally across this country. That's the way we work together. That's the way we survive together." News The Canadian Press Researchers look at humidity as a weapon in the fight against airborne viruses The ongoing fight against the COVID-19 pandemic could get a boost if Canadians paid more attention to the relative humidity levels in public and private spaces, according to a growing body of international research.Doctors, scientists and engineers agree that sufficient indoor air moisture levels can have a powerful but little-understood effect on the transmission of airborne diseases. While the novel coronavirus that causes COVID-19 is currently treated as one that's transmitted through droplet infection rather than the air, research on exactly how it passes between humans is still underway. Most buildings, however, fall short of the recommended threshold of 40 to 60 per cent relative humidity, particularly in countries with colder, dryer climates such as Canada. Addressing the issue now, they contend, could confer some immediate short-term benefits and offer a powerful tool for warding off similar epidemics in the future."Transmission is greater in dry air, infectivity is higher in dry air, and the ability of a human being to fight infection is impaired," said Dr. Stephanie Taylor, a graduate of and lecturer at Harvard Medical School. "Any one of those would be important, but all three of them are in play."Taylor concedes that the notion may seem counter-intuitive, saying the idea of humidity conjures images of fetid swamps and disease-bearing mosquitoes. But she said a growing body of research has suggested that relative humidity levels that are much more comfortable for humans offer a host of benefits.She said airborne particles carrying viruses can travel farther in air that isn't sufficiently hydrated. For reasons researchers are still probing, she also said viruses seem to be more infectious in those dryer conditions as well.Dr. Samira Mubareka, a medical microbiologist at Toronto's Sunnybrook Hospital and a member of a team that isolated the novel coronavirus, previously helped conduct research on the effect of temperature and humidity on influenza strains.The research, which evaluated data from Toronto over a roughly five-year period, found higher humidity levels seemed to help create less favourable conditions for viruses to thrive, particularly in colder overall temperatures."It was in that range of 50 to 60 (per cent) where we saw the least amount of transmission," she said.Researchers also said relative humidity levels have an effect on the human body's natural infection-fighting functions.Karen Bartlett, a professor at the University of British Columbia's School of Population and Public Health, said proper hydration is necessary to ensure the health of everything from mucus membranes to eyes and skin."If we are between that 40 and 60 (per cent) relative humidity, we are also protecting our buildings and making it more comfortable for us," she said.But according to the international body that sets standards for the built environment in many countries including Canada, those benefits can't be obtained in the majority of public and private buildings.Robert Bean, a Calgary-based indoor climate consultant and distinguished lecturer with the American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers, said Canadian buildings are advised to maintain humidity levels between 35 and 55 per cent.But he said Canada's relatively cold, dry climate can make it difficult to sustain those levels, particularly in older buildings.The greater the difference between indoor and outdoor humidity levels, he said, the greater the tendency for the inside air to flow outward and cause condensation, which can in turn lead to mould and other potential hazards.This tendency is at its peak in older buildings such as schools, he said, but added poor understanding of building standards is also a risk factor.Bean said international research has shown that less than five per cent of buildings currently comply with ASHRAE's standard dictating the environmental conditions for human occupancy, which includes relative humidity as a factor."If you had any other industry with such low knowledge of their standards, that industry would collapse," he said. But Bean said the trend is slowly starting to change, in part due to a growing understanding of the overlap between the engineering and medical communities."This whole issue with the virus is bringing up the importance of the built environment," he said. "It exposes the weaknesses that we have in the relationship between the building sciences and the health sciences."Taylor said individuals coping with self-isolation or practising physical distancing could benefit from boosting relative humidity levels in their own environments and called on public spaces to make such efforts a priority moving forward.But Mubareka stopped short of echoing her recommendations, saying too much is unknown about COVID-19 at this point."I wouldn't be surprised if the conditions were very similar, but until it's properly tested, I personally would hesitate to recommend the general public start implementing things of that nature," she said.Mubareka said all evidence available to date suggests measures to protect against droplet infections remain the best line of defence against COVID-19, particularly regular hand-washing, the use of masks for health-care workers and those showing symptoms, and physical distancing for the rest of the public.This report by The Canadian Press was first published April 3, 2020. Michelle McQuuigge, The Canadian Press 1 News CBC Essential workers kept waiting for promised daycares Between surgeries at The Ottawa Hospital, Dr. Kerianne Boulva is trying to figure out how she and her husband can do their jobs and look after their two-and-a-half-year-old son. Boulva, a surgical oncology fellow at the hospital, had thought an emergency daycare plan for essential workers was imminent after the province announced on March 22 the facilities would be open by the end of that week.Now, 12 days later, police officers, nurses, paramedics, firefighters, government of Ontario employees and doctors like Boulva are still waiting to hear about any kind of plan. "Ever since that has been announced there essentially hasn't been anything made available in the Ottawa region, so it's been a little bit disappointing," Boulva said. CBC has put requests in to the city for answers almost daily since March 23. The repeated response is that the city is "actively working on establishing child care centres for essential workers," but no details have been provided.Open in other citiesEmergency daycare centres have opened in several Ontario cities including Toronto, Cornwall and Peterborough, according to this list published by the province. "When I tried to call the City of Ottawa's children's services branch, no one answers. So it's not super encouraging, and we don't know how long this is going to go on," Boulva said.If and when the emergency daycare centres do open up, she and other essential workers have questions about how they'll operate — the ratios and other protocols put in place to keep kids, staff and families safe, especially when it comes to the children of health-care workers who have potential exposure to COVID-19. ER doctor felt 'like a leper'Dr. Lesley Spencer, an emergency room doctor who works in hospitals in Kemptville and Smiths Falls, Ont., has been scrambling to arrange care for her two kids, ages six and two. When schools and daycare centres first closed, Spencer's mother-in-law was watching the children, but that was putting her at risk. "We heard about the health-care daycares that were supposed to open, but honestly that just sounds like everybody who's [at] high risk of contracting [COVID-19] sending all their undiagnosed children to the same place and then everybody getting it," Spencer said. She and her husband decided to look for a nanny to come into their home, but she said as soon as she told potential sitters she's an ER doctor, they weren't interested in taking the job. "I kind of felt a bit like a leper," Spencer said. She eventually did find someone to look after her kids, but Spencer knows not everyone can afford that option, and she's concerned about other essential workers who are still without child care."The grocery store workers, they're making what, 15, maybe 20 bucks an hour?" she said. "There needs to be that kind of centre, and if it's not heavily, heavily subsidized or free, then it's useless." 2 What to Read Next COVID-19 in Canada: PM Trudeau, Doug Ford express disappointment in Trump's trade 'mistake' Yahoo News Canada U.S. doctors seek protection from malpractice suits during outbreak Reuters Videos 'This is so irresponsible': 'Covidiot' blogger faces backlash for leaving New York City after COVID-19 diagnosis Yahoo Canada Style 'Canada will lose every time:' COVID-19 pandemic threatens Canada-U.S. relations Yahoo News Canada Cougars venture into quarantined Santiago for food Reuters Videos Sea lion shot by crossbow and gun released back into the wild CBC The CDC Advises Everyone To Wear Masks In Public HuffPost How Long Does Coronavirus Live In The Air? Here's What We Know. HuffPost Life Coronavirus cases in Canada: More than 12,000 cases reported, 187 deaths Yahoo News Canada Two fearless pet dogs go face-to-face with five-foot-long cobra in India Newsflare Trudeau rejects mandatory stay-at-home order for now; COVID deaths up The Canadian Press Detroit bus driver complains on video about dangerous passenger then dies days later WXYZ-Detroit Videos Dismissed U.S. carrier captain gets hero's ovation from crew Reuters Penguin, Meet Beluga: Curious Bird Meets Curious Mammals at Chicago's Shedd Aquarium Storyful Colorado Sanctuary Home to 39 Tigers Once Owned By Tiger King 's Joe Exotic: They're 'Happier' People Tucker Carlson claims medical experts 'failed us badly' on the coronavirus Yahoo Entertainment