Western P.E.I. honours health-care workers, first responders with parade Home Mail News Sports Finance Celebrity Style Movies Weather Answers Mobile Yahoo Search Search Mail News Home Follow Us Coronavirus Vote 'n' Vent Originals Canada World Business Entertainment Sports Science & Tech Weather Coronavirus updates VOTE: Are you optimistic Canada can lower COVID-19 rates? See the full recap of all the day's events in coronavirus news across the country Western P.E.I. honours health-care workers, first responders with parade CBC April 3, 2020 Reblog Share Tweet Share There was a parade involving various first-responder vehicles in western P.E.I. Friday afternoon. Alberton Mayor David Gordon said the parade was put on to show support to nurses, doctors and first responders on the front line in the province's battle with COVID-19. There was representation from various western P.E.I. communities' first responders as well as Island EMS. The tour kicked off at 2 p.m. Friday and went from the Alberton fire department, past the Western Hospital, the Alberton Manor and continued on to the seniors' centre in Tignish as well as the Community Hospital in O'Leary. View photos Ken Linton/CBCMore View photos Ken Linton/CBCMore View photos Ken Linton/CBCMore View photos Ken Linton/CBCMore Story continues COVID-19: What you need to know What are the symptoms of COVID-19? Common symptoms include: Fever. Cough. Tiredness. But more serious symptoms can develop, including difficulty breathing and pneumonia, which can lead to death. Health Canada has built a self-assessment tool. What should I do if I feel sick? Isolate yourself and call 811. Do not visit an emergency room or urgent care centre to get tested. A health professional at 811 will give you advice and instructions. How can I protect myself? Wash your hands frequently and thoroughly. Avoid touching your eyes, nose and mouth. Clean regularly touched surfaces regularly. More detailed information on the outbreak is available on the federal government's website. More COVID-19 stories from CBC P.E.I. Reblog Share Tweet Share What to Read Next N.S. officials plan how to keep cancer treatments going during COVID-19 crisis CBC 5 TSX Stocks for Building Wealth Motley Fool CanadaAd UCSF Health Affiliate Circle Medical Launches Nation’s Most Accessible Primary Care Telemedicine Service Business Wire Virtual Care and Intelligent Automation Tools Help CommonSpirit Health’s Caregivers at 1,000+ Care Sites Triage Patients and Reduce Transmission of COVID-19 Business Wire London Singles: 3 Online Dating Sites that Actually Work Top 10 Best Dating SitesAd COVID-19 in Canada: PM Trudeau, Doug Ford express disappointment in Trump's trade 'mistake' Yahoo News Canada U.S. doctors seek protection from malpractice suits during outbreak Reuters Videos 'This is so irresponsible': 'Covidiot' blogger faces backlash for leaving New York City after COVID-19 diagnosis Yahoo Canada Style Single Moms in London Looking For a New Beginning Mature Quality SinglesAd 'Canada will lose every time:' COVID-19 pandemic threatens Canada-U.S. relations Yahoo News Canada London Zoo: Business as usual behind closed doors Reuters Videos The Latest: Chinese man jailed after not reporting travel The Canadian Press The Natural Formula for Back and Knee Pain Relief Reqvo CreamAd How Long Does Coronavirus Live In The Air? Here's What We Know. HuffPost Life Coronavirus cases in Canada: More than 12,000 cases reported, 187 deaths Yahoo News Canada Trudeau rejects mandatory stay-at-home order for now; COVID deaths up The Canadian Press