Kylie Jenner Showed Off Her Natural Hair Length on Instagram Home Mail News Sports Finance Celebrity Style Movies Weather Answers Mobile Yahoo Search Search Mail News Home Follow Us Coronavirus Vote 'n' Vent Originals Canada World Business Entertainment Sports Science & Tech Weather Coronavirus updates VOTE: Are you optimistic Canada can lower COVID-19 rates? See the full recap of all the day's events in coronavirus news across the country Kylie Jenner Showed Off Her Natural Hair Length on Instagram Bianca Betancourt Harper's Bazaar April 3, 2020 Reblog Share Tweet Share Photo credit: Kylie Jenner - InstagramMore From Harper's BAZAAR Kylie Jenner showed off her natural hair length and sandy-blonde roots on Instagram yesterday. Rather than rocking her usual waist-length tresses, Jenner showcased a chic blunt bob and a makeup-free face via her Instagram. Kylie Jenner is continuing to keep things casual while self-quarantining at home in Los Angeles. The Kylie Cosmetics CEO took to her Instagram this week to show off her natural hair—sans wigs, extensions, and dye jobs—as well as a fresh, makeup-free face for her followers. The quick clip showcases Jenner rocking her bob-length natural tresses in a chic half ponytail while wearing an oversized black hoodie. The au naturel look is a switch from Jenner's usual beauty routine, as fans are used to seeing the Keeping Up with the Kardashians star sporting waist-length, onyx-hued strands and a full face of makeup when checking in via Instagram. Recently, Jenner has used her platform to encourage followers to practice social distancing as the world continues to combat the coronavirus. The reality star even claimed that her extremely low-key pregnancy helped prepare her for being confined to her house for weeks on end. "Another daily reminder to take this social distancing serious and self-quarantine. I'm on day 8," wrote Jenner in a previous Instagram Story. "My pregnancy prepared me for this. I didn't leave the house for months. We got this." You Might Also Like The Essential British Packing List 30 Facial Moisturizers for Every Budget We Cut Bangs on 16 Different Women With The Help of Celebrity Stylist Justine Marjan Reblog Share Tweet Share What to Read Next Kylie Jenner Says She Doesn't 'Want Another Baby Right Now' but Plans to Have 7 Kids 'Down the Line' People 5 TSX Stocks for Building Wealth Motley Fool CanadaAd Kylie Jenner Says She Would Rather Have a 'Silent' Sexual Partner Than One with a 'Weird' Accent People 6 Easy Hairstyles That Totally Hide the Fact You Aren't Shampooing in Quarantine Allure Dawn Butler interview: 'I was told I'd never progress with my natural hair' Yahoo News UK London Singles: 3 Online Dating Sites that Actually Work Top 10 Best Dating SitesAd Luxury Lockdowns of Kylie Jenner and Arielle Charnas Underfire After Breaches of COVID-19 Orders The Daily Beast COVID-19 in Canada: PM Trudeau, Doug Ford express disappointment in Trump's trade 'mistake' Yahoo News Canada U.S. doctors seek protection from malpractice suits during outbreak Reuters Videos Single Moms in London Looking For a New Beginning Mature Quality SinglesAd 'This is so irresponsible': 'Covidiot' blogger faces backlash for leaving New York City after COVID-19 diagnosis Yahoo Canada Style 'Canada will lose every time:' COVID-19 pandemic threatens Canada-U.S. relations Yahoo News Canada London Zoo: Business as usual behind closed doors Reuters Videos A Natural Formula Can Help Knee and Back Pain Reqvo CreamAd Fox’s ‘Deputy’ Canceled After One Season Variety How Long Does Coronavirus Live In The Air? Here's What We Know. HuffPost Life