COVID-19 pandemic threatens Canada-U.S. relations Home Mail News Sports Finance Celebrity Style Movies Weather Answers Mobile Yahoo Search Search Mail-1 ComposeGo to Mail News Home Follow Us Coronavirus Vote 'n' Vent Originals Canada World Business Entertainment Sports Science & Tech Weather Coronavirus updates VOTE: Are you optimistic Canada can lower COVID-19 rates? See the full recap of all the day's events in coronavirus news across the country 'Canada will lose every time:' COVID-19 pandemic threatens Canada-U.S. relations Elianna Lev Yahoo News Canada April 3, 2020 Reblog Share Tweet Share While Canada and the U.S. have historically had strong ties in times of crisis, the current pandemic seems to be setting a different tone. It was recently reported that a shipment of Quebec-bound masks ended up in Ohio. Additionally, the White House has ordered 3M, which manufactures medical devices, to stop exporting N95 masks to other countries, including Canada. At his Friday morning briefing, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau assured Canadians that his government was doing all it could to get much-needed supplies across the country, while also maintaining a positive and mutually-beneficial relationship with the U.S. “We will always seek to make sure that trade with the U.S. remains open, because both countries depend on the exchange of essential goods and services in both directions,” Trudeau said, stressing that this included thousands of nurses who live in Windsor but work in the American health care system in Detroit. “We are going to follow up on shipments, but in the meantime, we’re confident we’ll continue receiving what you need.” Change from historical stance A truck crosses the Bluewater Bridge border crossing between Sarnia, Ontario and Port Huron, Michigan on March 16, 2020. (Photo by Geoff Robins / AFP) (Photo by GEOFF ROBINS/AFP via Getty Images)More These examples bring to question whether the relationship between Canada and the U.S. will be one of the many things to shift during the pandemic. The current dynamic between the two countries is vastly different from WWII, when the two sides bonded together and abolished the border, in order to freely transfer war supplies. Canadian agencies would sometimes have their own offices inside certain U.S. departments like agriculture and the wartime research and development undertaking, The Manhattan Project, which produced the first nuclear weapons. During the Cold War, both countries shared a list of supplies that they would not send to the opposing side, the Communists. But with the borders currently closed between the two countries, and starkly different leadership styles from Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and President Donald Trump, does the current pandemic have the potential to put a strain on our relationship? Robert Bothwell, a professor at the Monk School of Public Affairs, says that now is the time to work together for the best interest of the two countries. “It would make a lot of sense to combine purchasing mechanisms that would allow us to order together and avoid competition,” he says. “What we don’t want is to be at the wrong end of a supply chain, with the U.S. above us, because Canada will lose every time.” While the current administration is unlikely to agree to partnering with Canada to order and share supplies, those further down appear to be more willing. For example, CBC reported that the mayor of Stewart, B.C. said last month that the town’s grocery store will continue to deliver supplies to Hyder, Alaska — population 80 — even if it means leaving them right at the border. The tiny American town relies on Stewart for essential resources like food and fuel. Here is the mayor of Stewart, B.C., promising her community will look after the residents of Hyder, Alaska if they are cut off by the Canada-U.S. border closure, even if it means leaving supplies at the crossing. "We are one community." #covid19 pic.twitter.com/Um2FslxU0T — Andrew Kurjata 📻 (@akurjata) March 21, 2020 Robert Speel, an associate professor at Penn State Erie, who co-teaches a class on Canadian-American relations with a professor at Ryerson, says Canada taking the lead at trying to block American visitors from entering the country can prove to be problematic. “This probably doesn't hurt diplomatic relations between the countries, but it does great damage, at least in the short term, to the tourist industry, to businesses along the border, and to people who have family and friends on both sides of the border,” he says. On the other hand, the two countries are working together to make sure that the supply chain is not interrupted by the border closures for routine visitors. “With the approval of the new trade agreement earlier this year, that should indicate that commerce between the two countries can continue to thrive,” Speel says. Reblog Share Tweet Share What to Read Next The Latest: Chinese man jailed after not reporting travel The Canadian Press 5 TSX Stocks for Building Wealth Motley Fool CanadaAd Why It's Important To 'Buy Local' During A Pandemic HuffPost Canada Nunavut organizations announce $2M boost to community food programs during pandemic CBC Trump Calls Reporter's Tone 'Nasty' While Defending Kushner's Stockpile Remark HuffPost London Singles: 3 Online Dating Sites that Actually Work Top 10 Best Dating SitesAd Kenney says he's 'insulted' by Trump order to stop exporting N95 masks to Canada CBC COVID-19 in Canada: PM Trudeau, Doug Ford express disappointment in Trump's trade 'mistake' Yahoo News Canada U.S. doctors seek protection from malpractice suits during outbreak Reuters Videos A Natural Formula Can Help Knee and Back Pain Reqvo CreamAd 'This is so irresponsible': 'Covidiot' blogger faces backlash for leaving New York City after COVID-19 diagnosis Yahoo Canada Style How Long Does Coronavirus Live In The Air? Here's What We Know. HuffPost Life London Zoo: Business as usual behind closed doors Reuters Videos Single in London? Mature Quality SinglesAd Trump Won’t Wear a Mask, but Should You? The Daily Beast Coronavirus cases in Canada: More than 12,000 cases reported, 187 deaths Yahoo News Canada