IMPORTANT APRIL DEADLINE REMINDER: The Schall Law Firm Announces the Filing of a Class Action Lawsuit Against Six Flags Entertainment Corporation and Encourages Investors with Losses in Excess of $250,000 to Contact the Firm Home Mail News Sports Finance Celebrity Style Movies Weather Answers Mobile Yahoo Search Search Mail News Home Follow Us Coronavirus Vote 'n' Vent Originals Canada World Business Entertainment Sports Science & Tech Weather Coronavirus updates VOTE: Are you optimistic Canada can lower COVID-19 rates? See the full recap of all the day's events in coronavirus news across the country IMPORTANT APRIL DEADLINE REMINDER: The Schall Law Firm Announces the Filing of a Class Action Lawsuit Against Six Flags Entertainment Corporation and Encourages Investors with Losses in Excess of $250,000 to Contact the Firm ACCESSWIRE April 3, 2020 Reblog Share Tweet Share LOS ANGELES, CA / ACCESSWIRE / April 3, 2020 / The Schall Law Firm, a national shareholder rights litigation firm, announces the filing of a class-action lawsuit against Six Flags Entertainment Corporation ("Six Flags" or "the Company") (NYSE:SIX) for violations of 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. View photos Investors who purchased the Company's securities between April 25, 2018 and January 9, 2020, inclusive (the ''Class Period'') are encouraged to contact the firm before April 13, 2020. If you are a shareholder who suffered a loss, click here to participate. We also encourage you to contact Brian Schall of the Schall Law Firm, 1880 Century Park East, Suite 404, Los Angeles, CA 90067, at 424-303-1964, to discuss your rights free of charge. You can also reach us through the firm's website at www.schallfirm.com, or by email at brian@schallfirm.com. The class, in this case, has not yet been certified, and until certification occurs, you are not represented by an attorney. If you choose to take no action, you can remain an absent class member. According to the Complaint, the Company made false and misleading statements to the market. Six Flags suffered from park development delays in China with partner Riverside. The delays were not "short-term" by any reasonable definition; in fact, the delays were both long-term and material in nature. Riverside was in a state of severe financial distress and did not have the resources necessary to complete its projects with the Company. Based on these facts, the Company's public statements were false and materially misleading throughout the class period. When the market learned the truth about Six Flags, investors suffered damages. Join the case to recover your losses. The Schall Law Firm represents investors around the world and specializes in securities class action lawsuits and shareholder rights litigation. This press release may be considered Attorney Advertising in some jurisdictions under the applicable law and rules of ethics. CONTACT: The Schall Law Firm Brian Schall, Esq. 310-301-3335 info@schallfirm.com www.schallfirm.com SOURCE: The Schall Law Firm View source version on accesswire.com: https://www.accesswire.com/583887/IMPORTANT-APRIL-DEADLINE-REMINDER-The-Schall-Law-Firm-Announces-the-Filing-of-a-Class-Action-Lawsuit-Against-Six-Flags-Entertainment-Corporation-and-Encourages-Investors-with-Losses-in-Excess-of-250000-to-Contact-the-Firm View photos Reblog Share Tweet Share What to Read Next Great Ajax Corp. Announces $80 Million Private Placement Business Wire 5 TSX Stocks for Building Wealth Motley Fool CanadaAd IOU Announces Cost Reduction Initiatives due to the COVID-19 Pandemic CNW Group SHAREHOLDER ACTION ALERT: The Schall Law Firm Announces the Filing of a Class Action Lawsuit Against Mesa Air Group, Inc. and Encourages Investors with Losses in Excess of $100,000 to Contact the Firm Newsfile Luckin Coffee Shareholder Notice: Faruqi & Faruqi, LLP Encourages Investors Who Suffered Losses Investing In Luckin Coffee Inc. To Contact The Firm Newsfile Single Moms in London Looking For a New Beginning Mature Quality SinglesAd COVID-19 in Canada: PM Trudeau, Doug Ford express disappointment in Trump's trade 'mistake' Yahoo News Canada U.S. doctors seek protection from malpractice suits during outbreak Reuters Videos 'This is so irresponsible': 'Covidiot' blogger faces backlash for leaving New York City after COVID-19 diagnosis Yahoo Canada Style London Singles: 3 Online Dating Sites that Actually Work Top 10 Best Dating SitesAd 'Canada will lose every time:' COVID-19 pandemic threatens Canada-U.S. relations Yahoo News Canada London Zoo: Business as usual behind closed doors Reuters Videos Before suing NSO Group, Facebook allegedly sought their software to better spy on users TechCrunch A Natural Formula Can Help Knee and Back Pain Reqvo CreamAd How Long Does Coronavirus Live In The Air? Here's What We Know. HuffPost Life Coronavirus cases in Canada: More than 12,000 cases reported, 187 deaths Yahoo News Canada