Wolfhead Distillery distributes hand sanitizer, collects donation for Amherstburg food bank Home Mail News Sports Finance Celebrity Style Movies Weather Answers Mobile Yahoo Search Search Mail News Home Follow Us Coronavirus Vote 'n' Vent Originals Canada World Business Entertainment Sports Science & Tech Weather Coronavirus updates VOTE: Are you optimistic Canada can lower COVID-19 rates? See the full recap of all the day's events in coronavirus news across the country Wolfhead Distillery distributes hand sanitizer, collects donation for Amherstburg food bank CBC April 4, 2020 Reblog Share Tweet Share Staff with the Wolfhead Distillery in Amherstburg, Ont. handed out more than 2,000 bottles of hand sanitizer on Friday, encouraging those picking up the antiseptic to make donations to the Amherstburg Food and Fellowship Mission and Food Bank. Lisa McDonald, an office administrator with the distillery, explained that staff wearing personal protective equipment handed out a maximum of two 350 ml bottles to a "crazy, overwhelmingly busy" line-up of cars, while staff with the food bank collected donations. "It worked really well," she said. "It was very efficient. Once the line started moving, it moved pretty good." McDonald explained that the distillery came up with the idea to collect donations for the local food bank after learning that food banks across the region were having trouble meeting demand. Tahmina Aziz/CBCMore June Muir, head of the Windsor-Essex Food Bank Association, which administers 15 regional food banks including the Food and Fellowship Mission and Food Bank, told CBC News on March 20 that area food banks only had about 10 days worth of supplies left at the time. Muir explained that the shortage was caused by an increasing number of food bank visitors affected by COVID-19-related layoffs and work suspensions. Wolfhead capitalized on an existing relationship with University of Windsor chemistry professor John Trant to distill the company's supply of hand sanitizer. McDonald said the distillery is currently waiting on an "emergency license" that will enable the company to sell its hand sanitizer "to the front lines and get it out to the nursing homes and everybody who needs it." "Our hands are tied right now until that licensing comes through," McDonald said. "In the meantime, this is what we can do." Wolfhead isn't the only adult beverage company working on producing hand sanitizer. In late March, the Hiram Walker and Sons distillery on Riverside Drive announced plans to produce and donate locally made hand sanitizer to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Reblog Share Tweet Share What to Read Next Beiersdorf Is Creating Hand Sanitizer to Help With Shortages Caused by COVID-19 Allure Millions In Canada Claim Free Virus Check Today TotalAVAd Food Banks Canada applauds the federal government's significant investment in food banks to deal with COVID-19 crisis CNW Group Food security experts warn of supply shortages, higher prices due to global pandemic CBC Oprah Donates $10 Million Towards Coronavirus Relief Efforts﻿ Harper's Bazaar 5 TSX Stocks for Building Wealth Motley Fool CanadaAd Looking Back at the Laws That Came With the 1918 Spanish Flu Pandemic Variety COVID-19 in Canada: PM Trudeau, Doug Ford express disappointment in Trump's trade 'mistake' Yahoo News Canada U.S. doctors seek protection from malpractice suits during outbreak Reuters Videos Single Moms in London Looking For a New Beginning Mature Quality SinglesAd 'This is so irresponsible': 'Covidiot' blogger faces backlash for leaving New York City after COVID-19 diagnosis Yahoo Canada Style 'Canada will lose every time:' COVID-19 pandemic threatens Canada-U.S. relations Yahoo News Canada London Zoo: Business as usual behind closed doors Reuters Videos London Singles: 3 Online Dating Sites that Actually Work Top 10 Best Dating SitesAd How Long Does Coronavirus Live In The Air? Here's What We Know. HuffPost Life Coronavirus cases in Canada: More than 12,000 cases reported, 187 deaths Yahoo News Canada