Detailed screening tells paramedics when to wear full protective gear Home Mail News Sports Finance Celebrity Style Movies Weather Answers Mobile Yahoo Search Search Mail News Home Follow Us Coronavirus Vote 'n' Vent Originals Canada World Business Entertainment Sports Science & Tech Weather Coronavirus updates VOTE: Are you optimistic Canada can lower COVID-19 rates? See the full recap of all the day's events in coronavirus news across the country Detailed screening tells paramedics when to wear full protective gear CBC April 3, 2020 Reblog Share Tweet Share Island paramedics are donning protective equipment — gowns, gloves, mask and face shield — for several of its calls each day now. Island EMS gets about 70 to 80 calls a day. Five or 6 of those are for patients in self-isolation or showing symptoms that could indicate COVID-19. "Patients understand that paramedics need to take precautions," said Jeremy Measham, operations manager for Island EMS. "They're they're not too surprised to see paramedics and other health care staff wearing these kinds of precautions." View photos Island EMSMore The gear is used once and then thrown away. Supplies are holding up well, according to paramedics. Measham credits the use of screening measures — a series of questions about patients' symptoms and travel — for helping first responders know when they need to use protective gear, and when they can save the increasingly precious resources for future use. "We would encourage everyone to be as forthcoming as possible when they call 911 and have interaction with paramedics," said Measham. View photos Island EMSMore So far, no COVID-19 symptoms have appeared among paramedics. The service remains fully staffed with 180 paramedics and 14 ambulances at bases in Souris, Montague, Charlottetown, Alberton and O'Leary. Orders to wear the extra protection have been in place since early March, according to Island EMS. Paramedics say they're surprised by the amount of traffic on Island roads, despite the COVID-19 shut-downs. More from CBC P.E.I. Reblog Share Tweet Share What to Read Next Delta police say they stopped sale of medical equipment at inflated prices The Canadian Press 5 TSX Stocks for Building Wealth Motley Fool CanadaAd US accused of 'modern piracy' after diversion of masks meant for Europe The Guardian The latest developments on COVID-19 in Canada The Canadian Press Critic, workers' group 'disappointed' Trudeau chose Amazon to distribute PPE The Canadian Press Single Moms in London Looking For a New Beginning Mature Quality SinglesAd Local Mask Production a Priority for France - President Emmanuel Macron Tours Medicom Facility CNW Group COVID-19 in Canada: PM Trudeau, Doug Ford express disappointment in Trump's trade 'mistake' Yahoo News Canada U.S. doctors seek protection from malpractice suits during outbreak Reuters Videos London Singles: 3 Online Dating Sites that Actually Work Top 10 Best Dating SitesAd 'This is so irresponsible': 'Covidiot' blogger faces backlash for leaving New York City after COVID-19 diagnosis Yahoo Canada Style 'Canada will lose every time:' COVID-19 pandemic threatens Canada-U.S. relations Yahoo News Canada London Zoo: Business as usual behind closed doors Reuters Videos 23 Genius Gadgets Taking Canada By Storm iTechDiscoveryAd How Long Does Coronavirus Live In The Air? Here's What We Know. HuffPost Life Coronavirus cases in Canada: More than 12,000 cases reported, 187 deaths Yahoo News Canada