IOU Announces Cost Reduction Initiatives due to the COVID-19 Pandemic Home Mail News Sports Finance Celebrity Style Movies Weather Answers Mobile Yahoo Search Search Mail News Home Follow Us Coronavirus Vote 'n' Vent Originals Canada World Business Entertainment Sports Science & Tech Weather Coronavirus updates VOTE: Are you optimistic Canada can lower COVID-19 rates? See the full recap of all the day's events in coronavirus news across the country IOU Announces Cost Reduction Initiatives due to the COVID-19 Pandemic CNW Group April 4, 2020 Reblog Share Tweet Share MONTREAL, April 3, 2020 /CNW Telbec/ - IOU FINANCIAL INC. ("IOU" or "the Company") (TSXV:IOU.V - News), a leading online lender to small businesses (IOUFinancial.com), announces today cost reduction and other initiatives due to the COVID-19 pandemic. IOU Financial has modified its underwriting standards to temporarily cease lending to industries and geographical areas which are strongly impacted by Covid-19. Nevertheless, the company continues to originate loans and support businesses deemed essential by various governments. The duration of the current situation of the pandemic is unknown and considering the uncertainty faced by the North American economy over the coming months, the Company furloughed approximately 40% of its full-time employees and implemented a temporary 20% reduction in salary for all remaining employees. IOU has also announced that more than two-thirds of the value of the Company's convertible debenture holders have agreed to defer the payment of interest from the April 30, 2020 payment period to the June 30, 2020 payment period ("reprieve period") and capitalizing the accrued interest over the reprieve period to the principal amount of the debentures at the end of the reprieve period, in accordance to the terms of the trust indenture under which such debentures were issued. While the current unprecedented economic situation due to the pandemic remains unknown, the Company is prepared to react quickly as the situation may require and looks forward to emerging as a stronger business coming out of this downturn. About IOU Financial Inc. IOU Financial Inc. provides small businesses throughout the U.S. and Canada access to the capital they need to seize growth opportunities quickly. In a unique approach to lending, IOU Financial's advanced, automated application and approval system accurately assesses applicants' financial realities, with an emphasis on day-to-day cash flow trends. IOU Financial allows these businesses to apply for six, nine, twelve, fifteen and eighteen-month term loans of up to US$500,000 to qualified U.S. applicants ($150,000 in Canada) within a few business days, with affordable charges favorable to cash-flow management. Its speed and transparency make IOU Financial a trusted alternative to banks. To learn more visit: IOUFinancial.com. Forward Looking Statements Certain information set forth in this news release may contain forward-looking statements that involve substantial known and unknown risks and uncertainties. These forward-looking statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, certain of which are beyond the control of IOU including, but not limited to, the impact of general economic conditions, industry conditions, dependence upon regulatory and shareholder approvals, the execution of definitive documentation and the uncertainty of obtaining additional financing. Readers are cautioned that the assumptions used in the preparation of such information, although considered reasonable at the time of preparation, may prove to be imprecise and, as such, undue reliance should not be placed on forward-looking statements. IOU does not assume any obligation to update or revise its forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. Neither TSX Venture Exchange nor its Regulation Services Provider (as that term is defined in policies of the TSX Venture Exchange) accepts responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of this release. CisionMore View original content:http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/iou-announces-cost-reduction-initiatives-due-to-the-covid-19-pandemic-301035453.html SOURCE IOU Financial Inc. CisionMore View original content: http://www.newswire.ca/en/releases/archive/April2020/03/c6339.html Reblog Share Tweet Share What to Read Next Great Ajax Corp. Announces $80 Million Private Placement Business Wire 5 TSX Stocks for Building Wealth Motley Fool CanadaAd SHAREHOLDER ACTION ALERT: The Schall Law Firm Announces the Filing of a Class Action Lawsuit Against Mesa Air Group, Inc. and Encourages Investors with Losses in Excess of $100,000 to Contact the Firm Newsfile Luckin Coffee Shareholder Notice: Faruqi & Faruqi, LLP Encourages Investors Who Suffered Losses Investing In Luckin Coffee Inc. To Contact The Firm Newsfile IMPORTANT APRIL DEADLINE REMINDER: The Schall Law Firm Announces the Filing of a Class Action Lawsuit Against Six Flags Entertainment Corporation and Encourages Investors with Losses in Excess of $250,000 to Contact the Firm ACCESSWIRE London Singles: 3 Online Dating Sites that Actually Work Top 10 Best Dating SitesAd COVID-19 in Canada: PM Trudeau, Doug Ford express disappointment in Trump's trade 'mistake' Yahoo News Canada U.S. doctors seek protection from malpractice suits during outbreak Reuters Videos 'This is so irresponsible': 'Covidiot' blogger faces backlash for leaving New York City after COVID-19 diagnosis Yahoo Canada Style Single Moms in London Looking For a New Beginning Mature Quality SinglesAd 'Canada will lose every time:' COVID-19 pandemic threatens Canada-U.S. relations Yahoo News Canada London Zoo: Business as usual behind closed doors Reuters Videos How Long Does Coronavirus Live In The Air? Here's What We Know. HuffPost Life A Natural Formula Can Help Knee and Back Pain Reqvo CreamAd Coronavirus cases in Canada: More than 12,000 cases reported, 187 deaths Yahoo News Canada Trudeau rejects mandatory stay-at-home order for now; COVID deaths up The Canadian Press