Anhui Conch Cement (HKG:914) Shareholders Have Enjoyed A 93% Share Price Gain Home Mail News Sports Finance Celebrity Style Movies Weather Answers Mobile Yahoo Search Search Mail News Home Follow Us Coronavirus Vote 'n' Vent Originals Canada World Business Entertainment Sports Science & Tech Weather Coronavirus updates VOTE: Are you optimistic Canada can lower COVID-19 rates? See the full recap of all the day's events in coronavirus news across the country Anhui Conch Cement (HKG:914) Shareholders Have Enjoyed A 93% Share Price Gain Simply Wall St Simply Wall St. April 4, 2020 Reblog Share Tweet Share View photos By buying an index fund, investors can approximate the average market return. But if you buy good businesses at attractive prices, your portfolio returns could exceed the average market return. For example, Anhui Conch Cement Company Limited (HKG:914) shareholders have seen the share price rise 93% over three years, well in excess of the market return (-13%, not including dividends). However, more recent returns haven't been as impressive as that, with the stock returning just 13% in the last year , including dividends . See our latest analysis for Anhui Conch Cement To paraphrase Benjamin Graham: Over the short term the market is a voting machine, but over the long term it's a weighing machine. One way to examine how market sentiment has changed over time is to look at the interaction between a company's share price and its earnings per share (EPS). During three years of share price growth, Anhui Conch Cement achieved compound earnings per share growth of 58% per year. The average annual share price increase of 25% is actually lower than the EPS growth. So one could reasonably conclude that the market has cooled on the stock. This cautious sentiment is reflected in its (fairly low) P/E ratio of 7.75. You can see below how EPS has changed over time (discover the exact values by clicking on the image). SEHK:914 Past and Future Earnings April 4th 2020More It's probably worth noting that the CEO is paid less than the median at similar sized companies. It's always worth keeping an eye on CEO pay, but a more important question is whether the company will grow earnings throughout the years. This free interactive report on Anhui Conch Cement's earnings, revenue and cash flow is a great place to start, if you want to investigate the stock further. What About Dividends? When looking at investment returns, it is important to consider the difference between total shareholder return (TSR) and share price return. The TSR incorporates the value of any spin-offs or discounted capital raisings, along with any dividends, based on the assumption that the dividends are reinvested. It's fair to say that the TSR gives a more complete picture for stocks that pay a dividend. We note that for Anhui Conch Cement the TSR over the last 3 years was 113%, which is better than the share price return mentioned above. This is largely a result of its dividend payments! A Different Perspective It's good to see that Anhui Conch Cement has rewarded shareholders with a total shareholder return of 13% in the last twelve months. Of course, that includes the dividend. Having said that, the five-year TSR of 15% a year, is even better. It's always interesting to track share price performance over the longer term. But to understand Anhui Conch Cement better, we need to consider many other factors. Consider for instance, the ever-present spectre of investment risk. We've identified 2 warning signs with Anhui Conch Cement (at least 1 which is a bit unpleasant) , and understanding them should be part of your investment process. If you are like me, then you will not want to miss this free list of growing companies that insiders are buying. Please note, the market returns quoted in this article reflect the market weighted average returns of stocks that currently trade on HK exchanges. If you spot an error that warrants correction, please contact the editor at editorial-team@simplywallst.com. This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. Simply Wall St has no position in the stocks mentioned. We aim to bring you long-term focused research analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Thank you for reading. Reblog Share Tweet Share What to Read Next Earnings Miss: Greentown Service Group Co. Ltd. Missed EPS By 9.4% And Analysts Are Revising Their Forecasts Simply Wall St. 5 TSX Stocks for Building Wealth Motley Fool CanadaAd Results: Sinic Holdings (Group) Company Limited Exceeded Expectations And The Consensus Has Updated Its Estimates Simply Wall St. E-House (China) Enterprise Holdings Limited Just Missed EPS By 30%: Here's What Analysts Think Will Happen Next Simply Wall St. Shanghai Jin Jiang Capital Company Limited Earnings Missed Analyst Estimates: Here's What Analysts Are Forecasting Now Simply Wall St. London Singles: 3 Online Dating Sites that Actually Work Top 10 Best Dating SitesAd Here's How P/E Ratios Can Help Us Understand NewOcean Energy Holdings Limited (HKG:342) Simply Wall St. COVID-19 in Canada: PM Trudeau, Doug Ford express disappointment in Trump's trade 'mistake' Yahoo News Canada U.S. doctors seek protection from malpractice suits during outbreak Reuters Videos Single Moms in London Looking For a New Beginning Mature Quality SinglesAd 'This is so irresponsible': 'Covidiot' blogger faces backlash for leaving New York City after COVID-19 diagnosis Yahoo Canada Style 'Canada will lose every time:' COVID-19 pandemic threatens Canada-U.S. relations Yahoo News Canada London Zoo: Business as usual behind closed doors Reuters Videos A Natural Formula Can Help Knee and Back Pain Reqvo CreamAd Analysts Have Lowered Expectations For GOME Retail Holdings Limited (HKG:493) After Its Latest Results Simply Wall St. How Long Does Coronavirus Live In The Air? Here's What We Know. HuffPost Life