Sens offer use of CTC, other facilities to Ontario government amid pandemic Home Mail News Sports Finance Celebrity Style Movies Weather Answers Mobile Yahoo Search Search Mail News Home Follow Us Coronavirus Vote 'n' Vent Originals Canada World Business Entertainment Sports Science & Tech Weather Coronavirus updates VOTE: Are you optimistic Canada can lower COVID-19 rates? See the full recap of all the day's events in coronavirus news across the country Sens offer use of CTC, other facilities to Ontario government amid pandemic The Canadian Press April 3, 2020 Reblog Share Tweet Share The Ottawa Senators have offered the Canadian Tire Centre, the building's nine adjacent parking lots, and three other community arenas affiliated with the team to the Ontario government for temporary use during the COVID-19 pandemic. A club spokesperson said Friday that Senators owner Eugene Melnyk approached the province earlier this week and is awaiting a reply. The offer comes with the potential use of 17 unleased private suites inside Ottawa's NHL rink — including Melnyk's — and amounts to roughly 200,000 square feet of adaptable space. The board of directors for the city's three Bell Sensplex arenas, which are run via public/private partnership, voted unanimously to endorse the offer. The team spokesperson added the municipal government has been apprised of the situation. The spokesperson added the Senators would ensure the Canadian Tire Centre, which is located in the west-end suburb of Kanata, is staffed with essential workers. Like most other sports, the NHL paused its season March 12 amid the novel coronavirus outbreak. Six members of the organization, including at least two players, tested positive for COVID-19, as did the team's radio colour commentator. The Senators were on a road trip in California right before the NHL suspended play. Two players on the Colorado Avalanche, who were also on the West Coast before the hiatus went into effect, are the only other NHLers with confirmed positive tests. Melnyk announced earlier this week the organization would be implementing temporary layoffs and salary reductions due to the pandemic. The Edmonton Oilers, Calgary Flames, Montreal Canadiens and Boston Bruins previously announced temporary layoffs and salary reductions. Melnyk pledged last month to pay part-time and hourly arena staff at the Canadian Tire Centre and the team's American Hockey League affiliate in Belleville, Ont., through to the end of their respective seasons. This report by The Canadian Press was first published April 3, 2020. Joshua Clipperton, The Canadian Press Reblog Share Tweet Share What to Read Next The Latest: Chinese man jailed after not reporting travel The Canadian Press 5 TSX Stocks for Building Wealth Motley Fool CanadaAd Why It's Important To 'Buy Local' During A Pandemic HuffPost Canada Nunavut organizations announce $2M boost to community food programs during pandemic CBC IOU Announces Cost Reduction Initiatives due to the COVID-19 Pandemic CNW Group London Singles: 3 Online Dating Sites that Actually Work Top 10 Best Dating SitesAd Ontario needs 900 new ICU beds to cope with coming surge in COVID-19 patients, models suggest CBC COVID-19 in Canada: PM Trudeau, Doug Ford express disappointment in Trump's trade 'mistake' Yahoo News Canada U.S. doctors seek protection from malpractice suits during outbreak Reuters Videos Single Moms in London Looking For a New Beginning Mature Quality SinglesAd 'This is so irresponsible': 'Covidiot' blogger faces backlash for leaving New York City after COVID-19 diagnosis Yahoo Canada Style 'Canada will lose every time:' COVID-19 pandemic threatens Canada-U.S. relations Yahoo News Canada London Zoo: Business as usual behind closed doors Reuters Videos A Natural Formula Can Help Knee and Back Pain Reqvo CreamAd The Latest: NCAA suspends infraction hearings, arguments The Associated Press How Long Does Coronavirus Live In The Air? Here's What We Know. HuffPost Life