More flights suspended at Charlottetown airport because of COVID-19 Home Mail News Sports Finance Celebrity Style Movies Weather Answers Mobile Yahoo Search Search Mail News Home Follow Us Coronavirus Vote 'n' Vent Originals Canada World Business Entertainment Sports Science & Tech Weather Coronavirus updates VOTE: Are you optimistic Canada can lower COVID-19 rates? See the full recap of all the day's events in coronavirus news across the country More flights suspended at Charlottetown airport because of COVID-19 CBC April 3, 2020 Reblog Share Tweet Share More suspensions to flights travelling to and from Prince Edward Island were announced Friday as the airline industry across Canada deals with the effects of COVID-19. Air Canada announced the service between Charlottetown and Halifax will be suspended from April 6 until June 1, 2020. Flight service between Toronto and Charlottetown has been suspended until June 1 as well. A spokesperson with Air Canada told CBC News the flights have been reduced because of "low demand." Starting on Monday, Air Canada will only operate one daily flight between Charlottetown and Montreal. WestJet continues to operate a direct flight between Charlottetown and Toronto three days a week. Passenger travel down 90 per cent Doug Newson, CEO of the Charlottetown Airport Authority, said the airport is very quiet, with passenger travel down by about 90 per cent. "A little over a month ago we were looking at terminal expansions and challenges this summer in terms of how we were going to get people through the airport … we were looking at a banner year for the Charlottetown Airport Authority and the tourism industry," he said. "It feels like overnight that has done a 180. It's certainly stressful times, but we're not alone in this obviously." John Robertson/CBCMore He said the pandemic will take a financial toll on the airport, ranging in the millions of dollars. Newson said last April there was an average of up to 750 passengers coming through the terminal a day. "Over the past week, we've had about 75," he said. The federal government has announced help so far by waiving rent for airports that pay Transport Canada. But Newson said those payments are based on revenue and may mean only about $5,000 in savings for the Charlottetown airport. The airport plans to defer capital projects and will look at other ways to cut costs. Newson said it is hard to predict the future in these unprecedented times but understands people, businesses and industries are impacted all over. He said some of the smaller airports have already seen cancellations of all flights. If the pandemic continues for too long, Newson said, that could happen in Charlottetown as well. COVID-19: What you need to know What are the symptoms of COVID-19? Common symptoms include: Fever. Cough. Tiredness. But more serious symptoms can develop, including difficulty breathing and pneumonia, which can lead to death. Health Canada has built a self-assessment tool. What should I do if I feel sick? Isolate yourself and call 811. Do not visit an emergency room or urgent care centre to get tested. A health professional at 811 will give you advice and instructions. How can I protect myself? Wash your hands frequently and thoroughly. Avoid touching your eyes, nose and mouth. Clean regularly touched surfaces regularly. More detailed information on the outbreak is available on the federal government's website. More COVID-19 stories from CBC P.E.I. Reblog Share Tweet Share What to Read Next Would Warren Buffett Buy Air Canada (TSX:AC) Stock? The Motley Fool 5 TSX Stocks for Building Wealth Motley Fool CanadaAd Prince Edward Island announces COVID-19 has put 2019-20 budget into deficit The Canadian Press Should You Buy Airline Stocks? The Motley Fool Ottawa airport facing 'devastating decline' due to COVID-19 CBC London Singles: 3 Online Dating Sites that Actually Work Top 10 Best Dating SitesAd 2 TSX Stocks That Are Still Undervalued The Motley Fool COVID-19 in Canada: PM Trudeau, Doug Ford express disappointment in Trump's trade 'mistake' Yahoo News Canada U.S. doctors seek protection from malpractice suits during outbreak Reuters Videos Single Moms in London Looking For a New Beginning Mature Quality SinglesAd 'This is so irresponsible': 'Covidiot' blogger faces backlash for leaving New York City after COVID-19 diagnosis Yahoo Canada Style 'Canada will lose every time:' COVID-19 pandemic threatens Canada-U.S. relations Yahoo News Canada London Zoo: Business as usual behind closed doors Reuters Videos A Natural Formula Can Help Knee and Back Pain Reqvo CreamAd How Long Does Coronavirus Live In The Air? Here's What We Know. HuffPost Life Coronavirus cases in Canada: More than 12,000 cases reported, 187 deaths Yahoo News Canada