Coronavirus: Trump to defy 'voluntary' advice for Americans to wear masks Home Mail News Sports Finance Celebrity Style Movies Weather Answers Mobile Yahoo Search Search Mail News Home Follow Us Coronavirus Vote 'n' Vent Originals Canada World Business Entertainment Sports Science & Tech Weather Coronavirus updates VOTE: Are you optimistic Canada can lower COVID-19 rates? See the full recap of all the day's events in coronavirus news across the country Coronavirus: Trump to defy 'voluntary' advice for Americans to wear masks BBC April 4, 2020 Reblog Share Tweet Share US President Donald Trump has said he will not wear a face mask despite new medical guidance advising Americans to do so. He could not see himself greeting "presidents, prime ministers, dictators, kings, queens" in the Oval Office while wearing one, he said. He stressed that the guidance released on Friday was "voluntary". "You do not have to do it," he said. "I don't think I'm going to be doing it." The guidelines issued by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the government's public health advisory agency, came as the US reported at least 270,473 confirmed cases of Covid-19, with nearly 7,000 deaths. View photos New York CIty Mayor Bill de Blasio has already recommended all New Yorkers wear facial coveringsMore Until now, US health authorities had said that only the sick, or those caring for patients of coronavirus, should wear masks, but newer studies suggest that covering up one's face is important to prevent inadvertent transmission. "From recent studies we know that the transmission from individuals without symptoms is playing a more significant role in the spread of the virus than previously understood," Mr Trump said on Friday. However, he told reporters after announcing the CDC's new guidance: "I just don't want to do it myself." "Sitting in the Oval Office... I somehow don't see it for myself." Americans are now advised to use clean cloth or fabric to cover their faces whilst in public. Officials have stressed that medical masks remain in short supply, and should be left for healthcare workers. The guidance comes as the number of cases globally climbs past one million. Should more of us wear face masks? Why some countries wear face masks and others don't Coronavirus: Are homemade face masks safe? What else did the president say? Mr Trump announced the CDC's guidance at the White House daily coronavirus briefing, but repeatedly emphasised that the advisory was "voluntary". "You don't have to do it," he said. "I'm choosing not to do it, but some people may want to do it and that's OK. It may be good. Probably will." Asked why, he said: "I just don't want to be doing [that], somehow sitting in the Oval Office behind that beautiful resolute desk, the great Resolute Desk." "I think wearing a face mask as I greet presidents, prime ministers, dictators, kings, queens, I don't know somehow I don't see it for myself. I just don't. Maybe I'll change my mind." The president was pressed on US disease readiness, the federal government stimulus package, and whether the pandemic will disrupt the 2020 presidential election on 3 November. Mr Trump insisted that his government's response has saved lives, and that the election will not be delayed. View photos Analysis box by Tara McKelvey, White House reporterMore The president - without a mask Why won't the president wear a mask? That's what I wanted to know - especially after he had laid out new guidelines by the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) officials during a briefing: people should wear cloth masks when they go outside. The CDC recommendations, a list that ranges from social distancing to hand-washing, help flatten the curve, according to members of the White House task force on coronavirus. Yet the president said he would not put on a mask: he said it would not look right for him to wear one in the Oval Office. I thought that sounded vain, and I pressed him on the matter, asking him to explain more fully why he would not wear a mask in the midst of a pandemic. He smiled. "I was just tested," he said. "I assume I don't have the virus so I don't have to worry about spreading it." For him, the matter has been resolved. For many others, it has not been. They want to do everything they can to stop the disease and, unlike the president, they will put on masks. What's the debate over masks? Covid-19 is carried in airborne droplets from people coughing or sneezing, but there is some dispute over how far people should distance themselves from each other, and whether masks are useful when used by the public. Story continues The World Health Organization (WHO) advises that ordinary face masks are only effective if combined with careful hand-washing and social distancing, and so far it does not recommend them generally for healthy people. However, more and more health experts now say there are benefits. They argue that the public use of masks can primarily help by preventing asymptomatic patients - people who have been infected with Covid-19 but are not aware, and not displaying any symptoms - from unknowingly spreading the virus to others. Trump 'wants to stop mask exports to Canada' New York to redistribute ventilators amid shortage Masks may also help lower the risk of individuals catching the virus through the droplets from another person's sneeze or a cough - and people can be taught how put masks on and take them off correctly, they argue. Speaking at Friday's briefing, Surgeon General Jerome Adams acknowledged that the US guidance had changed, based on growing awareness that Covid-19 can be transmitted by asymptomatic people "coughing, sneezing or speaking". Local officials in New York City and Los Angeles had already urged residents to cover their faces when outside and near others. And on Thursday, officials in Laredo, Texas, issued an emergency ordinance which means residents will face a $1,000 (£815) fine if they fail to cover their noses and mouths while outside. However, there is also disagreement among experts over the benefits of using cloth masks. European advisers say reusable cloth masks are not recommended and may even increase the chance of infection. View photos Banner image reading 'more about coronavirus'More A SIMPLE GUIDE: How do I protect myself? AVOIDING CONTACT: The rules on self-isolation and exercise LOOK-UP TOOL: Check cases in your area MAPS AND CHARTS: Visual guide to the outbreak VIDEO: The 20-second hand wash BannerMore Reblog Share Tweet Share What to Read Next Why It's Important To 'Buy Local' During A Pandemic HuffPost Canada 5 TSX Stocks for Building Wealth Motley Fool CanadaAd COVID-19 in Canada: PM Trudeau, Doug Ford express disappointment in Trump's trade 'mistake' Yahoo News Canada U.S. doctors seek protection from malpractice suits during outbreak Reuters Videos 'This is so irresponsible': 'Covidiot' blogger faces backlash for leaving New York City after COVID-19 diagnosis Yahoo Canada Style Single Moms in London Looking For a New Beginning Mature Quality SinglesAd 'Canada will lose every time:' COVID-19 pandemic threatens Canada-U.S. relations Yahoo News Canada London Zoo: Business as usual behind closed doors Reuters Videos The Latest: Chinese man jailed after not reporting travel The Canadian Press London Singles: 3 Online Dating Sites that Actually Work Top 10 Best Dating SitesAd How Long Does Coronavirus Live In The Air? Here's What We Know. HuffPost Life Coronavirus cases in Canada: More than 12,000 cases reported, 187 deaths Yahoo News Canada Trudeau rejects mandatory stay-at-home order for now; COVID deaths up The Canadian Press A Natural Formula Can Help Knee and Back Pain Reqvo CreamAd Cougars venture into quarantined Santiago for food Reuters Videos No spouses, doulahs allowed on Jewish General Hospital's maternity ward for duration of pandemic CBC