Surprise! Nordstrom Just Dropped Amazing Deals on Celeb-Loved Denim Home Mail News Sports Finance Celebrity Style Movies Weather Answers Mobile Yahoo Search Search Mail News Home Follow Us Coronavirus Vote 'n' Vent Originals Canada World Business Entertainment Sports Science & Tech Weather Coronavirus updates VOTE: Are you optimistic Canada can lower COVID-19 rates? See the full recap of all the day's events in coronavirus news across the country Surprise! Nordstrom Just Dropped Amazing Deals on Celeb-Loved Denim Alex Warner People April 3, 2020 Reblog Share Tweet Share We’ve been spending a lot of time at home in sweatpants lately, dreaming of the day we’ll retire them for regular pants. But while we wait for that day to come, we’ll use this time to refresh our denim collection, which we can now do for way less thanks to Nordstrom: The department store just surprised us with more incredible savings on top of its already amazing Spring Sale! As part of its new Better Together Sale, Nordstrom is teaming up with some of its favorite brands to bring you “exceptional deals” online while its stores are temporarily closed. To kick things off, it’s advertising savings of 25 percent on jeans for the entire family from top-rated brands like Rag & Bone, Good American, AG, and Paige. However, while scrolling through the sale, we noticed a handful of styles that are discounted even more — we’re talking up to 55 percent off! What’s even more exciting is that there are so many celeb-loved denim brands on sale, including Levi’s, a classic label loved by Hilary Duff; Mother, the brand behind Meghan Markle’s iconic skinny jeans; and Frame, which counts supermodels Gigi Hadid, Hailey Bieber, and Karlie Kloss as fans. RELATED: Famous Moms Love to Wear This Denim Brand — and It’s on Sale at Nordstrom There are over 3,200 denim styles on sale in the women’s section, but we narrowed it down to eight pairs you definitely should add to your cart while you can get them for less. The ones we’re most excited to score on sale? The vintage-inspired Levi’s Wedgie jeans that practically everyone wants to get their butts into (think: peach emoji) that are now only $64. We also discovered a few of Everlane’s already affordable and sustainable styles on sale too, like these stretchy bootcut jeans. But here’s the catch: These savings end on Sunday, April 5 at noon ET, so there is very limited time to take advantage of them. Scroll down to shop our picks before this deal ends, and stay tuned because Nordstrom has teased more deals coming soon! View photos Nordstrom Buy It! Everlane The Cheeky Bootcut Jeans, $58.50 (orig. $78); nordstrom.com View photos Nordstrom Buy It! Levi’s Wedgie High Waist Raw Hem Straight Leg Jeans, $63.70 (orig. $98); nordstrom.com View photos Story continues Nordstrom Buy It! BlankNYC Madison High Waist Raw Hem Crop Straight Leg, $66 (orig. $88); nordstrom.com View photos Nordstrom Buy It! Frame Le Skinny de Jeanne Crop Jeans, $146.25 (orig. $195); nordstrom.com View photos Nordstrom View photos Nordstrom Buy It! Citizens of Humanity Liya High Waist Ripped Slim Leg Jeans, $193.50 (orig. $258); nordstrom.com View photos Nordstrom Buy It! Rag & Bone Rosa Ripped Boyfriend Jeans, $206.25 (orig. $278); nordstrom.com View photos Nordstrom Buy It! Veronica Beard Ember Seam Detail High Waist Wide Leg Jeans, $243.75 (orig. $325); nordstrom.com Do you love a good deal? Sign up for PEOPLE’s Shopping newsletter to stay up-to-date on the latest sales, plus celebrity fashion, home decor and more. And check out PEOPLE’s Coupons page for even more discounts. Reblog Share Tweet Share What to Read Next 13 Incredible Deals to Shop at Nordstrom This Weekend — Including the Leggings Practically Every Celeb Owns for 25% Off People 5 TSX Stocks for Building Wealth Motley Fool CanadaAd The 3 Best Sales Happening This Weekend and Exactly What to Buy People Here Are The Best Sales This Weekend HuffPost Life London Singles: 3 Online Dating Sites that Actually Work Top 10 Best Dating SitesAd Shop the 10 Best Sales Now, Before They Sell Out PureWow COVID-19 in Canada: PM Trudeau, Doug Ford express disappointment in Trump's trade 'mistake' Yahoo News Canada U.S. doctors seek protection from malpractice suits during outbreak Reuters Videos Single Moms in London Looking For a New Beginning Mature Quality SinglesAd 'This is so irresponsible': 'Covidiot' blogger faces backlash for leaving New York City after COVID-19 diagnosis Yahoo Canada Style 'Canada will lose every time:' COVID-19 pandemic threatens Canada-U.S. relations Yahoo News Canada London Zoo: Business as usual behind closed doors Reuters Videos A Natural Formula Can Help Knee and Back Pain Reqvo CreamAd This Cult-Favorite Bedding Brand Just Launched a Rare Sale on Its Award-Winning Comforters People How Long Does Coronavirus Live In The Air? Here's What We Know. HuffPost Life Coronavirus cases in Canada: More than 12,000 cases reported, 187 deaths Yahoo News Canada