Parliament to debate Bill on plans for possible election amid pandemic Home Mail News Sports Finance Celebrity Style Movies Weather Answers Mobile Yahoo Search Search Mail News Home Follow Us Coronavirus Vote 'n' Vent Originals Canada World Business Entertainment Sports Science & Tech Weather Coronavirus updates VOTE: Are you optimistic Canada can lower COVID-19 rates? See the full recap of all the day's events in coronavirus news across the country Parliament to debate Bill on plans for possible election amid COVID-19 pandemic Staff Writer, Singapore Editorial Team Yahoo News Singapore April 3, 2020 Reblog Share Tweet Share The Elections Department (ELD) said that it must make contingency plans for precautionary measures to ensure a safe election, should the upcoming general election take place amid the COVID-19 pandemic. (Yahoo News Singapore file photo)More SINGAPORE — A Bill on contingency plans to be put in place should a general election be held amid the COVID-19 outbreak will be debated in Parliament next Tuesday (7 April). In response to media queries, the Elections Department (ELD) said on Friday that, in view of the rapidly evolving COVID-19 situation, it must make contingency plans for precautionary measures to ensure a safe election, should the upcoming general election take place amid the pandemic. “The Parliamentary Elections (COVID-19 Special Arrangements) Bill contains the necessary legislative provisions to allow ELD to implement temporary arrangements to ensure the safety of voters, candidates and election officials during Parliamentary elections held on or before 14 April 2021,” said ELD. “The health and safety of voters, candidates and election officials is paramount to us,” it added. In recent weeks, Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong has given strong hints that a general election will be held shortly. The ruling People’s Action Party’s term ends on 15 January 2021, after which an election must be held by 14 April 2021. As of Wednesday, Singapore has confirmed 1,000 cases of COVID-19 infection, with 245 patients fully recovered and discharged. On Friday morning, a fifth patient - an 86-year-old female Singaporean - died of the disease. Related stories: Could Singapore's Lee Hsien Loong stay on as PM because of COVID-19? Is China to blame for the COVID-19 pandemic? No, says PM Lee Reblog Share Tweet Share What to Read Next COVID-19: All NSmen ICTs, IPPTs deferred until 4 May Yahoo News Singapore Millions In Canada Claim Free Virus Check Today TotalAVAd Why It's Important To 'Buy Local' During A Pandemic HuffPost Canada Nunavut organizations announce $2M boost to community food programs during pandemic CBC OCBC to close 22 branches temporarily due to COVID-19 social distancing measures Yahoo News Singapore 5 TSX Stocks for Building Wealth Motley Fool CanadaAd IOU Announces Cost Reduction Initiatives due to the COVID-19 Pandemic CNW Group COVID-19 in Canada: PM Trudeau, Doug Ford express disappointment in Trump's trade 'mistake' Yahoo News Canada U.S. doctors seek protection from malpractice suits during outbreak Reuters Videos London Singles: 3 Online Dating Sites that Actually Work Top 10 Best Dating SitesAd 'This is so irresponsible': 'Covidiot' blogger faces backlash for leaving New York City after COVID-19 diagnosis Yahoo Canada Style 'Canada will lose every time:' COVID-19 pandemic threatens Canada-U.S. relations Yahoo News Canada London Zoo: Business as usual behind closed doors Reuters Videos A Natural Formula Can Help Knee and Back Pain Reqvo CreamAd The Latest: Chinese man jailed after not reporting travel The Canadian Press How Long Does Coronavirus Live In The Air? Here's What We Know. HuffPost Life