The 3 Best Sales Happening This Weekend and Exactly What to Buy Home Mail News Sports Finance Celebrity Style Movies Weather Answers Mobile Yahoo Search Search Mail News Home Follow Us Coronavirus Vote 'n' Vent Originals Canada World Business Entertainment Sports Science & Tech Weather Coronavirus updates VOTE: Are you optimistic Canada can lower COVID-19 rates? See the full recap of all the day's events in coronavirus news across the country The 3 Best Sales Happening This Weekend and Exactly What to Buy Kami Phillips People April 3, 2020 Reblog Share Tweet Share If your weekend plans include online shopping, you’ll definitely want to check out these three sales. Right now, you can score up to 40 percent off at Nordstrom’s Spring Sale, take 50 percent off everything at J.Crew Factory, and enjoy an additional 30 percent off sale styles at Madewell. Keep scrolling to see what you can snag at a discount to start your weekend off in the most fashionable way possible! Nordstrom Get in on the amazing deals happening at Nordstrom: Shoppers can score up to 40 percent off thousands of styles, including plenty of pretty spring dresses, handbags, sandals, beauty products, and more. The discounts are already listed, so all you have to do is scoop up your favorites and add them to your cart before they’re gone — sizes and products are selling out fast. There are over 34,000 items marked down (we’re not kidding!), like this floral-print midi from Reformation and these classic Kate Middleton-loved Superga sneakers. Don’t sleep on the department store’s jewelry and beauty sections either, (hello, Mother’s Day gifts!). Markdowns include a layered chain necklace from celebrity-loved line Kendra Scott and top-rated Bobbi Brown moisturizer. View photos Buy It! Reformation Gavin Dress, $152.60 (orig. $218); nordstrom.com; Superga Cotu Sneaker, $50.98 (orig. $65); nordstrom.com; Kendra Scott Elisa Multistrand Pendant Necklace, $58.50 (orig. $78); nordstrom.com; Bobbi Brown Hydrating Face Cream, $40 (orig. $60); nordstrom.com Madewell Shoppers, this is your chance to score the Madewell denim, clothing, and accessories you’ve been eyeing for less. During the Bright Spot Spring Sale, shop a huge selection of must-have denim styles for just $75 each, enjoy an additional 30 percent off sale items, and take an extra 50 percent off select sale styles. Just be sure to enter the code SWEETDEAL at checkout to receive the discounts. We’re not wasting any time scooping up these high-rise slim boyfriend jeans for just $75, this ruffle-sleeve dress for $62 off its original price, and this floral-print blouse on sale for just $56. View photos Buy It! The High-Rise Slim Boyfriend Jean, $75 with code SWEETDEAL (orig. $128); madewell.com; Ruffle-Sleeve Easy Dress, $55.99 with code SWEETDEAL (orig. $118); madewell.com; Silk Button-Sleeve Top, $55.99 with code SWEETDEAL (orig. $110); madewell.com J.Crew Factory Spring is in the air, and J.Crew Factory is celebrating in a big way. This weekend, the brand is offering 50 percent off everything, meaning you can get the newest spring arrivals for half-off. As an added bonus, J.Crew Factory is also offering up to 60 percent off clearance items! Scoring this deal is easy — the sale prices are already listed, so all you have to do is add your favorites to your shopping cart and check out. We’ve got our credit cards ready to pick up this classic striped boatneck top for just $23, these comfy linen drawstring pants for only $17, and this easy-to-wear mini wrap dress on sale for just $23. Hurry though, styles are already selling out! View photos Buy It! Striped Boatneck Three-Quarter Sleeve Top, $22.50 (orig. $45); jcrewfactory.com; Linen-Cotton Drawstring Pant, $16.50 (orig. $59.50); jcrewfactory.com; Wrap Dress, $22.50 (orig. $79.50); jcrewfactory.com Reblog Share Tweet Share What to Read Next COVID-19 in Canada: PM Trudeau, Doug Ford express disappointment in Trump's trade 'mistake' Yahoo News Canada 5 TSX Stocks for Building Wealth Motley Fool CanadaAd U.S. doctors seek protection from malpractice suits during outbreak Reuters Videos 'This is so irresponsible': 'Covidiot' blogger faces backlash for leaving New York City after COVID-19 diagnosis Yahoo Canada Style 'Canada will lose every time:' COVID-19 pandemic threatens Canada-U.S. relations Yahoo News Canada London Singles: 3 Online Dating Sites that Actually Work Top 10 Best Dating SitesAd London Zoo: Business as usual behind closed doors Reuters Videos This Cult-Favorite Bedding Brand Just Launched a Rare Sale on Its Award-Winning Comforters People How Long Does Coronavirus Live In The Air? Here's What We Know. HuffPost Life Single Moms in London Looking For a New Beginning Mature Quality SinglesAd Coronavirus cases in Canada: More than 12,000 cases reported, 187 deaths Yahoo News Canada Trudeau rejects mandatory stay-at-home order for now; COVID deaths up The Canadian Press Cougars venture into quarantined Santiago for food Reuters Videos A Natural Formula Can Help Knee and Back Pain Reqvo CreamAd The CDC Advises Everyone To Wear Masks In Public HuffPost Detroit bus driver complains on video about dangerous passenger then dies days later WXYZ-Detroit Videos