Jane Fonda Is Bringing Back Her Iconic ’80s Workout—And Raising Climate Crisis Awareness While She’s At It Home Mail News Sports Finance Celebrity Style Movies Weather Answers Mobile Yahoo Search Search Mail News Home Follow Us Coronavirus Vote 'n' Vent Originals Canada World Business Entertainment Sports Science & Tech Weather Coronavirus updates VOTE: Are you optimistic Canada can lower COVID-19 rates? See the full recap of all the day's events in coronavirus news across the country Jane Fonda Is Bringing Back Her Iconic ’80s Workout—And Raising Climate Crisis Awareness While She’s At It Lauren Valenti Vogue April 3, 2020 Reblog Share Tweet Share Leave it to Jane Fonda to be a beacon of empowerment in a time of chaos and uncertainty. Today, the Hollywood legend and lifelong activist took to her various social media platforms (“Google me” she joked to the young TikTok audience in her first-ever clip) to share a video of herself not only “bringing back” her iconic ’80s Jane Fonda Workout, but raising climate crisis awareness while she's at it. In the clip, a flash of retro footage of Fonda doing the her famed "chicken arms" move plays before the 82-year-old launches into a strengthening leg lift sequence wearing a red leotard and flared pants. She's as nimble as ever, and it's no surprise to see the Oscar winner making the case for staying active in the time of social distancing. In an interview with Vogue in 1979, Fonda revealed, “I found early on that exercise has a tremendous effect on my morale. And when I’m working hard, I have a tendency to let everything good go. But I always hang on to my exercise. It gives me energy, staves off depression—it makes all the difference in the world.” After Fonda finishes off her last rep, the video cuts to her launching into an urgent plea on behalf of her climate action campaign, Fire Drill Friday, which she's now taken online. "“You know what? There are too many workouts happening right now on television and on computers," she says, sporting her red protest coat. "What I would really like you to do is work out with me for the planet. There’s a climate crisis that’s a real emergency, and so whether you’re on your couch or your yoga mat, will you join me for the virtual Fire Drill Fridays? The future needs you. I need you.” Encouraging social distancing, staying active by way of her exuberant retro workouts, and advocating for the protection of our planet in one fell, Gen Z-friendly swoop, Fonda is as much of a force as ever. Watch Now: Vogue Videos. Originally Appeared on Vogue Reblog Share Tweet Share What to Read Next OCBC to close 22 branches temporarily due to COVID-19 social distancing measures Yahoo News Singapore 5 TSX Stocks for Building Wealth Motley Fool CanadaAd Asymptomatic Coronavirus Cases Reinforce Need To Keep Your Distance: Dr. Theresa Tam HuffPost Canada 'I'm not going to do it': Trump rejects his own administration's advice on masks The Guardian Kylie Jenner Says She Doesn't 'Want Another Baby Right Now' but Plans to Have 7 Kids 'Down the Line' People London Singles: 3 Online Dating Sites that Actually Work Top 10 Best Dating SitesAd Protestors demand return of Transit Windsor service CBC COVID-19 in Canada: PM Trudeau, Doug Ford express disappointment in Trump's trade 'mistake' Yahoo News Canada U.S. doctors seek protection from malpractice suits during outbreak Reuters Videos A Natural Formula Can Help Knee and Back Pain Reqvo CreamAd 'This is so irresponsible': 'Covidiot' blogger faces backlash for leaving New York City after COVID-19 diagnosis Yahoo Canada Style 'Canada will lose every time:' COVID-19 pandemic threatens Canada-U.S. relations Yahoo News Canada London Zoo: Business as usual behind closed doors Reuters Videos London: Dating Site for Serious Relationships Mature Quality SinglesAd Fox’s ‘Deputy’ Canceled After One Season Variety How Long Does Coronavirus Live In The Air? Here's What We Know. HuffPost Life