OCBC to close 22 branches temporarily due to COVID-19 social distancing measures Home Mail News Sports Finance Celebrity Style Movies Weather Answers Mobile Yahoo Search Search Mail News Home Follow Us Coronavirus Vote 'n' Vent Originals Canada World Business Entertainment Sports Science & Tech Weather Coronavirus updates VOTE: Are you optimistic Canada can lower COVID-19 rates? See the full recap of all the day's events in coronavirus news across the country OCBC to close 22 branches temporarily due to COVID-19 social distancing measures Staff Writer, Singapore Editorial Team Yahoo News Singapore April 4, 2020 Reblog Share Tweet Share (Yahoo News Singapore file photo)More SINGAPORE — OCBC Bank will temporarily close 22 of its branches from 9 April to 4 May, as it expects reduced traffic due to enhanced social distancing measures by the Singapore government to curb the spread of COVID-19. In a media release on Friday (3 April), OCBC said its network of 1,200 ATMs, as well as its digital banking solutions, will remain operational. To ensure that there will be at least one branch open in the proximity of every neighbourhood town centre, 24 branches will stay open, including all 19 branches that offer Sunday Banking services. All five branches with safe deposit boxes – OCBC Centre, Thomson, Sixth Avenue, Ang Mo Kio and Bedok North – will remain open. The trade service centres at OCBC Centre South and OCBC Tampines Centre 2 will also be operational. The branches that will be closed are: Bishan, Bukit Batok, Bukit Panjang, City Square Mall, Holland Village, Hougang, Jurong West, Kallang Wave Premier, Marina Bay Financial Centre, North, NTU, NUS, Parkway Parade Premier, Paya Lebar Square, Serangoon Garden, SMU, Sun Plaza, Suntec City, Ubi, United Square, White Sands and Woodlands. OCBC Bank said that its next-generation ATMs, which were rolled out in 2018 and are available at 23 branches, can perform 80 per cent of the most-frequently requested over-the-counter services. Since March, cash cheques can also be instantly encashed at these ATMs. Customers are advised to check the bank’s website for details and to use the branch locator function to find an available branch nearest to them. Stay in the know on-the-go: Join Yahoo Singapore's Telegram channel at http://t.me/YahooSingapore More Singapore stories: Couple accused of abusing, killing 5-year-old son cleared of murder with common intention COVID-19: Exactly which 'essential services' can remain open from 7 April? FAQ: What you can or cannot do under new COVID-19 measures COVID-19: Most workplaces to close from 7 April; schools to roll out full home-based learning Reblog Share Tweet Share What to Read Next Parliament to debate Bill on plans for possible election amid COVID-19 pandemic Yahoo News Singapore 5 TSX Stocks for Building Wealth Motley Fool CanadaAd Singapore agencies launch online COVID-19 Symptom Checker Yahoo News Singapore OCBC Bank Chooses SSH.COM Products Business Wire COVID-19: 86-year-old woman is Singapore's fifth coronavirus-related death Yahoo News Singapore Single Moms in London Looking For a New Beginning Mature Quality SinglesAd SMRT bus driver of Service 972 contracts COVID-19 Yahoo News Singapore COVID-19 in Canada: PM Trudeau, Doug Ford express disappointment in Trump's trade 'mistake' Yahoo News Canada U.S. doctors seek protection from malpractice suits during outbreak Reuters Videos London Singles: 3 Online Dating Sites that Actually Work Top 10 Best Dating SitesAd 'This is so irresponsible': 'Covidiot' blogger faces backlash for leaving New York City after COVID-19 diagnosis Yahoo Canada Style 'Canada will lose every time:' COVID-19 pandemic threatens Canada-U.S. relations Yahoo News Canada London Zoo: Business as usual behind closed doors Reuters Videos 23 Genius Gadgets Taking Canada By Storm iTechDiscoveryAd How Long Does Coronavirus Live In The Air? Here's What We Know. HuffPost Life Coronavirus cases in Canada: More than 12,000 cases reported, 187 deaths Yahoo News Canada