Does China Shanshui Cement Group Limited's (HKG:691) Recent Track Record Look Strong? Home Mail News Sports Finance Celebrity Style Movies Weather Answers Mobile Yahoo Search Search Mail News Home Follow Us Coronavirus Vote 'n' Vent Originals Canada World Business Entertainment Sports Science & Tech Weather Coronavirus updates VOTE: Are you optimistic Canada can lower COVID-19 rates? See the full recap of all the day's events in coronavirus news across the country Does China Shanshui Cement Group Limited's (HKG:691) Recent Track Record Look Strong? Simply Wall St Simply Wall St. April 4, 2020 Reblog Share Tweet Share View photos After looking at China Shanshui Cement Group Limited's (SEHK:691) latest earnings update (31 December 2019), I found it helpful to revisit the company's performance in the past couple of years and compare this against the latest numbers. As a long-term investor I tend to focus on earnings trend, rather than a single number at one point in time. Also, comparing it against an industry benchmark to understand whether it outperformed, or is simply riding an industry wave, is an important aspect. In this article I briefly touch on my key findings. See our latest analysis for China Shanshui Cement Group Were 691's earnings stronger than its past performances and the industry? 691 recently turned a profit of CN¥3.0b (most recent trailing twelve-months) compared to its average loss of -CN¥147.8m over the past five years. SEHK:691 Income Statement April 4th 2020More In terms of returns from investment, China Shanshui Cement Group has invested its equity funds well leading to a 24% return on equity (ROE), above the sensible minimum of 20%. Furthermore, its return on assets (ROA) of 13% exceeds the HK Basic Materials industry of 9.8%, indicating China Shanshui Cement Group has used its assets more efficiently. And finally, its return on capital (ROC), which also accounts for China Shanshui Cement Group’s debt level, has increased over the past 3 years from 11% to 34%. This correlates with a decrease in debt holding, with debt-to-equity ratio declining from 143% to 49% over the past 5 years. What does this mean? China Shanshui Cement Group's track record can be a valuable insight into its earnings performance, but it certainly doesn't tell the whole story. Companies that have performed well in the past, such as China Shanshui Cement Group gives investors conviction. However, the next step would be to assess whether the future looks as optimistic. I recommend you continue to research China Shanshui Cement Group to get a more holistic view of the stock by looking at: Financial Health: Are 691’s operations financially sustainable? Balance sheets can be hard to analyze, which is why we’ve done it for you. Check out our financial health checks here. Other High-Performing Stocks: Are there other stocks that provide better prospects with proven track records? Explore our free list of these great stocks here. NB: Figures in this article are calculated using data from the trailing twelve months from 31 December 2019. This may not be consistent with full year annual report figures. If you spot an error that warrants correction, please contact the editor at editorial-team@simplywallst.com. This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. Simply Wall St has no position in the stocks mentioned. We aim to bring you long-term focused research analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Thank you for reading. Reblog Share Tweet Share What to Read Next COVID-19 in Canada: PM Trudeau, Doug Ford express disappointment in Trump's trade 'mistake' Yahoo News Canada 5 TSX Stocks for Building Wealth Motley Fool CanadaAd U.S. doctors seek protection from malpractice suits during outbreak Reuters Videos 'This is so irresponsible': 'Covidiot' blogger faces backlash for leaving New York City after COVID-19 diagnosis Yahoo Canada Style 'Canada will lose every time:' COVID-19 pandemic threatens Canada-U.S. relations Yahoo News Canada Single Moms in London Looking For a New Beginning Mature Quality SinglesAd London Zoo: Business as usual behind closed doors Reuters Videos Analysts Have Lowered Expectations For GOME Retail Holdings Limited (HKG:493) After Its Latest Results Simply Wall St. How Long Does Coronavirus Live In The Air? Here's What We Know. HuffPost Life London Singles: 3 Online Dating Sites that Actually Work Top 10 Best Dating SitesAd Coronavirus cases in Canada: More than 12,000 cases reported, 187 deaths Yahoo News Canada Trudeau rejects mandatory stay-at-home order for now; COVID deaths up The Canadian Press Cougars venture into quarantined Santiago for food Reuters Videos 23 Genius Gadgets Taking Canada By Storm iTechDiscoveryAd What Can We Learn From Fujikon Industrial Holdings Limited’s (HKG:927) Investment Returns? Simply Wall St. The CDC Advises Everyone To Wear Masks In Public HuffPost