China mourns thousands who died in country's coronavirus epidemic Home Mail News Sports Finance Celebrity Style Movies Weather Answers Mobile Yahoo Search Search Mail News Home Follow Us Coronavirus Vote 'n' Vent Originals Canada World Business Entertainment Sports Science & Tech Weather Coronavirus updates VOTE: Are you optimistic Canada can lower COVID-19 rates? See the full recap of all the day's events in coronavirus news across the country China mourns thousands who died in country's coronavirus epidemic Reuters April 4, 2020 Reblog Share Tweet Share A woman wearing a face mask walks at a residential area blocked by barriers in WuhanMore BEIJING (Reuters) - China declared Saturday a day of mourning for the thousands of "martyrs" who have died in the new coronavirus outbreak, flying the national flag at half mast throughout the country and suspending all forms of entertainment. The day of mourning coincided with the start of the annual Qingming tomb-sweeping festival, when millions of Chinese families pay respects to their ancestors. At 10 a.m. (0200 GMT) Beijing time, the country will observe three minutes of silence to mourn those who died, including frontline medical workers and doctors. Cars, trains and ships will sound their horns and air raid sirens will wail. More than 3,300 people in mainland China have died in the epidemic, which first surfaced in the central province of Hubei late last year, according to statistics published by the National Health Commission. In Wuhan, the capital of Hubei province and the epicentre of the outbreak, all traffic lights in urban areas will be turned red at 10 a.m. and all road traffic will cease for three minutes. Some 2,567 people have died in the city of 11 million people, accounting for more than 75% of the country's coronavirus fatalities. As of Friday, the total number of nationally confirmed cases stood at 81,639, including 19 new infections, the National Health Commission said. Eighteen of the new cases involved travellers arriving from abroad. The remaining one new infection was a local case was in Wuhan, a patient who was previously asymptomatic. (Reporting by Ryan Woo, Liangping Gao and Se Young Lee; Editing by Sandra Maler and Lincoln Feast.) Reblog Share Tweet Share What to Read Next Wuhan residents told to stay inside and stay vigilant as China begins to lift virus lockdown The Telegraph 5 TSX Stocks for Building Wealth Motley Fool CanadaAd Coronavirus: Wuhan residents told to stay inside and be vigilant The Guardian China's Hubei province reports four new coronavirus deaths as of April 2 Reuters Wuhan official urges vigilance as China plans to mourn coronavirus 'martyrs' Reuters London Singles: 3 Online Dating Sites that Actually Work Top 10 Best Dating SitesAd China logs fewer coronavirus infections but tightens some curbs on movement Reuters COVID-19 in Canada: PM Trudeau, Doug Ford express disappointment in Trump's trade 'mistake' Yahoo News Canada U.S. doctors seek protection from malpractice suits during outbreak Reuters Videos Single Moms in London Looking For a New Beginning Mature Quality SinglesAd 'This is so irresponsible': 'Covidiot' blogger faces backlash for leaving New York City after COVID-19 diagnosis Yahoo Canada Style 'Canada will lose every time:' COVID-19 pandemic threatens Canada-U.S. relations Yahoo News Canada London Zoo: Business as usual behind closed doors Reuters Videos A Natural Formula Can Help Knee and Back Pain Reqvo CreamAd ‘The Flash’ Actor Logan Williams Dies at 16 Variety How Long Does Coronavirus Live In The Air? Here's What We Know. HuffPost Life